.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH carl_slist_free_all 3 "5 March 2001" "libcarl 7.0" "libcarl Manual"
.SH NAME
carl_slist_free_all - free an entire carl_slist list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <carl/carl.h>
.sp
.BI "void carl_slist_free_all(struct carl_slist *" list);
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
carl_slist_free_all() removes all traces of a previously built carl_slist
linked list.

Passing in a NULL pointer in \fIlist\fP will make this function return
immediately with no action.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Nothing.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *handle;
struct carl_slist *slist=NULL;

slist = carl_slist_append(slist, "X-libcarl: coolness");

if (slist == NULL)
  return -1;

carl_easy_setopt(handle, CARLOPT_HTTPHEADER, slist);

carl_easy_perform(handle);

carl_slist_free_all(slist); /* free the list again */
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_slist_append "(3), "
