.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH carl_multi_remove_handle 3 "6 March 2002" "libcarl 7.9.5" "libcarl Manual"
.SH NAME
carl_multi_remove_handle - remove an easy handle from a multi session
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLMcode carl_multi_remove_handle(CARLM *multi_handle, CARL *easy_handle);
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
Removes a given \fIeasy_handle\fP from the \fImulti_handle\fP. This will make
the specified easy handle be removed from this multi handle's control.

When the easy handle has been removed from a multi stack, it is again
perfectly legal to invoke \fIcarl_easy_perform(3)\fP on this easy handle.

Removing an easy handle while being used is perfectly legal and will
effectively halt the transfer in progress involving that easy handle. All
other easy handles and transfers will remain unaffected.

It is fine to remove a handle at any time during a transfer, just not from
within any libcarl callback function.
.SH RETURN VALUE
CARLMcode type, general libcarl multi interface error code.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_multi_cleanup "(3)," carl_multi_init "(3), "
.BR carl_multi_add_handle "(3) "
