.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH carl_formfree 3 "6 April 2001" "libcarl 7.7.1" "libcarl Manual"
.SH NAME
carl_formfree - free a previously build multipart/formdata HTTP POST chain
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <carl/carl.h>
.sp
.BI "void carl_formfree(struct carl_httppost *" form);
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function is deprecated. Do not use! See \fIcarl_mime_init(3)\fP instead!

carl_formfree() is used to clean up data previously built/appended with
\fIcarl_formadd(3)\fP. This must be called when the data has been used, which
typically means after \fIcarl_easy_perform(3)\fP has been called.

The pointer to free is the same pointer you passed to the
\fICARLOPT_HTTPPOST(3)\fP option, which is the \fIfirstitem\fP pointer from
the \fIcarl_formadd(3)\fP invoke(s).

\fBform\fP is the pointer as returned from a previous call to
\fIcarl_formadd(3)\fP and may be NULL.

Passing in a NULL pointer in \fIform\fP will make this function return
immediately with no action.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Deprecated in 7.56.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
None
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_formadd "(3), " carl_mime_init "(3), " carl_mime_free "(3)"
