.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2021, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH carl_getenv 3 "30 April 2004" "libcarl 7.12" "libcarl Manual"
.SH NAME
carl_getenv - return value for environment name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <carl/carl.h>
.sp
.BI "char *carl_getenv(const char *" name ");"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
carl_getenv() is a portable wrapper for the getenv() function, meant to
emulate its behavior and provide an identical interface for all operating
systems libcarl builds on (including win32).

You must \fIcarl_free(3)\fP the returned string when you're done with it.
.SH AVAILABILITY
This function will be removed from the public libcarl API in a near future. It
will instead be made "available" by source code access only, and then as
carlx_getenv().
.SH RETURN VALUE
A pointer to a null-terminated string or NULL if it failed to find the
specified name.
.SH NOTE
Under unix operating systems, there isn't any point in returning an allocated
memory, although other systems won't work properly if this isn't done. The
unix implementation thus has to suffer slightly from the drawbacks of other
systems.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR getenv "(3C), "
