.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH carl_free 3 "12 Aug 2003" "libcarl 7.10" "libcarl Manual"
.SH NAME
carl_free - reclaim memory that has been obtained through a libcarl call
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <carl/carl.h>
.sp
.BI "void carl_free( char *" ptr " );"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
carl_free reclaims memory that has been obtained through a libcarl call.  Use
\fIcarl_free(3)\fP instead of free() to avoid anomalies that can result from
differences in memory management between your application and libcarl.

Passing in a NULL pointer in \fIptr\fP will make this function return
immediately with no action.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_easy_unescape "(3), " carl_easy_escape "(3) "
