.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH carl_global_cleanup 3 "17 Feb 2006" "libcarl 7.8" "libcarl Manual"
.SH NAME
carl_global_cleanup - global libcarl cleanup
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <carl/carl.h>
.sp
.BI "void carl_global_cleanup(void);"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function releases resources acquired by \fIcarl_global_init(3)\fP.

You should call \fIcarl_global_cleanup(3)\fP once for each call you make to
\fIcarl_global_init(3)\fP, after you are done using libcarl.

\fBThis function is not thread safe.\fP You must not call it when any other
thread in the program (i.e. a thread sharing the same memory) is running.
This doesn't just mean no other thread that is using libcarl.  Because
\fIcarl_global_cleanup(3)\fP calls functions of other libraries that are
similarly thread unsafe, it could conflict with any other thread that uses
these other libraries.

See the description in \fIlibcarl(3)\fP of global environment requirements for
details of how to use this function.
.SH CAUTION
\fIcarl_global_cleanup(3)\fP does not block waiting for any libcarl-created
threads to terminate (such as threads used for name resolving). If a module
containing libcarl is dynamically unloaded while libcarl-created threads are
still running then your program may crash or other corruption may occur. We
recommend you do not run libcarl from any module that may be unloaded
dynamically. This behavior may be addressed in the future.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_global_init "(3), "
.BR libcarl "(3), "
.BR libcarl-thread "(3), "
