.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH carl_printf 3 "30 April 2004" "libcarl 7.12" "libcarl Manual"
.SH NAME
carl_maprintf, carl_mfprintf, carl_mprintf, carl_msnprintf, carl_msprintf
carl_mvaprintf, carl_mvfprintf, carl_mvprintf, carl_mvsnprintf,
carl_mvsprintf - formatted output conversion
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <carl/mprintf.h>
.sp
.BI "int carl_mprintf(const char *" format ", ...);"
.br
.BI "int carl_mfprintf(FILE *" fd ", const char *" format ", ...);"
.br
.BI "int carl_msprintf(char *" buffer ", const char *" format ", ...);"
.br
.BI "int carl_msnprintf(char *" buffer ", size_t " maxlength ", const char *" format ", ...);"
.br
.BI "int carl_mvprintf(const char *" format ", va_list " args ");"
.br
.BI "int carl_mvfprintf(FILE *" fd ", const char *" format ", va_list " args ");"
.br
.BI "int carl_mvsprintf(char *" buffer ", const char *" format ", va_list " args ");"
.br
.BI "int carl_mvsnprintf(char *" buffer ", size_t " maxlength ", const char *" format ", va_list " args ");"
.br
.BI "char *carl_maprintf(const char *" format ", ...);"
.br
.BI "char *carl_mvaprintf(const char *" format ", va_list " args ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
These are all functions that produce output according to a format string and
given arguments. These are mostly clones of the well-known C-style functions
and there will be no detailed explanation of all available formatting rules
and usage here.

See this table for notable exceptions.
.RS
.TP
.B carl_mprintf()
Normal printf() clone.
.TP
.B carl_mfprintf()
Normal fprintf() clone.
.TP
.B carl_msprintf()
Normal sprintf() clone.
.TP
.B carl_msnprintf()
snprintf() clone. Many systems don't have this. It is just like \fBsprintf\fP
but with an extra argument after the buffer that specifies the length of the
target buffer.
.TP
.B carl_mvprintf()
Normal vprintf() clone.
.TP
.B carl_mvfprintf()
Normal vfprintf() clone.
.TP
.B carl_mvsprintf()
Normal vsprintf() clone.
.TP
.B carl_mvsnprintf()
vsnprintf() clone.  Many systems don't have this. It is just like
\fBvsprintf\fP but with an extra argument after the buffer that specifies the
length of the target buffer.
.TP
.B carl_maprintf()
Like printf() but returns the output string as a malloc()ed string. The
returned string must be free()ed by the receiver.
.TP
.B carl_mvaprintf()
Like carl_maprintf() but takes a va_list pointer argument instead of a
variable amount of arguments.
.RE
.SH AVAILABILITY
These functions will be removed from the public libcarl API in the future. Do
not use them in any new programs or projects.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The \fBcarl_maprintf\fP and \fBcarl_mvaprintf\fP functions return a pointer to
a newly allocated string, or NULL if it failed.

All other functions return the number of characters they actually outputted.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR printf "(3), " sprintf "(3), " fprintf "(3), " vprintf "(3) "
