.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH carl_mime_subparts 3 "22 August 2017" "libcarl 7.56.0" "libcarl Manual"
.SH NAME
carl_mime_subparts - set subparts of a multipart mime part
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <carl/carl.h>
.sp
.BI "CARLcode carl_mime_subparts(carl_mimepart * " part ,
.BI "carl_mime * " subparts ");"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcarl_mime_subparts(3)\fP sets a multipart mime part's content from a mime
structure.

\fIpart\fP is a handle to the multipart part.

\fIsubparts\fP is a mime structure handle holding the subparts. After
\fIcarl_mime_subparts\fP succeeds, the mime structure handle belongs to the
multipart part and must not be freed explicitly. It may however be updated by
subsequent calls to mime API functions.

Setting a part's contents twice is valid: only the value set by the last call
is retained. It is possible to unassign previous part's contents by setting
\fIsubparts\fP to NULL.
.SH AVAILABILITY
As long as at least one of HTTP, SMTP or IMAP is enabled. Added in 7.56.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
CARLE_OK or a CARL error code upon failure.
.SH EXAMPLE
TODO
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_mime_addpart "(3),"
.BR carl_mime_init "(3)"
