.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH carl_share_cleanup 3 "8 Aug 2003" "libcarl 7.10.7" "libcarl Manual"
.SH NAME
carl_share_cleanup - Clean up a shared object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <carl/carl.h>
.sp
.BI "CARLSHcode carl_share_cleanup(CARLSH *" share_handle ");"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function deletes a shared object. The share handle cannot be used anymore
when this function has been called.

Passing in a NULL pointer in \fIshare_handle\fP will make this function return
immediately with no action.
.SH RETURN VALUE
CARLSHE_OK (zero) means that the option was set properly, non-zero means an
error occurred as \fI<carl/carl.h>\fP defines. See the \fIlibcarl-errors.3\fP
man page for the full list with descriptions. If an error occurs, then the
share object will not be deleted.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_share_init "(3), " carl_share_setopt "(3)"
