.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH carl_unescape 3 "22 March 2001" "libcarl 7.7" "libcarl Manual"
.SH NAME
carl_unescape - URL decodes the given string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <carl/carl.h>
.sp
.BI "char *carl_unescape( const char *" url ", int "length " );"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
Obsolete function. Use \fIcarl_easy_unescape(3)\fP instead!

This function will convert the given URL encoded input string to a "plain
string" and return that as a new allocated string. All input characters that
are URL encoded (%XX where XX is a two-digit hexadecimal number) will be
converted to their plain text versions.

If the 'length' argument is set to 0, carl_unescape() will use strlen() on the
input 'url' string to find out the size.

You must \fIcarl_free(3)\fP the returned string when you're done with it.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Since 7.15.4, \fIcarl_easy_unescape(3)\fP should be used. This function will
be removed in a future release.
.SH RETURN VALUE
A pointer to a null-terminated string or NULL if it failed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br carl_easy_escape "(3)," carl_easy_unescape "(3)," carl_free "(3)," RFC 2396
