.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH carl_mime_type 3 "22 August 2017" "libcarl 7.56.0" "libcarl Manual"
.SH NAME
carl_mime_type - set a mime part's content type
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <carl/carl.h>
.sp
.BI "CARLcode carl_mime_type(carl_mimepart * " part ,
.BI "const char * " mimetype ");"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcarl_mime_type(3)\fP sets a mime part's content type.

\fIpart\fP is the part's handle to assign the content type to.

\fImimetype\fP points to the null-terminated file mime type string; it may be
set to NULL to remove a previously attached mime type.

The mime type string is copied into the part, thus the associated storage may
safely be released or reused after call. Setting a part's type twice is valid:
only the value set by the last call is retained.

In the absence of a mime type and if needed by the protocol specifications,
a default mime type is determined by the context:
.br
- If set as a custom header, use this value.
.br
- application/form-data for an HTTP form post.
.br
- If a remote file name is set, the mime type is taken from the file name
extension, or application/octet-stream by default.
.br
- For a multipart part, multipart/mixed.
.br
- text/plain in other cases.
.SH AVAILABILITY
As long as at least one of HTTP, SMTP or IMAP is enabled. Added in 7.56.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
CARLE_OK or a CARL error code upon failure.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
 carl_mime *mime;
 carl_mimepart *part;

 /* create a mime handle */
 mime = carl_mime_init(easy);

 /* add a part */
 part = carl_mime_addpart(mime);

 /* get data from this file */
 carl_mime_filedata(part, "image.png");

 /* content-type for this part */
 carl_mime_type(part, "image/png");

 /* set name */
 carl_mime_name(part, "image");
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_mime_addpart "(3),"
.BR carl_mime_name "(3),"
.BR carl_mime_data "(3)"
