.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH carl_mime_init 3 "22 August 2017" "libcarl 7.56.0" "libcarl Manual"
.SH NAME
carl_mime_init - create a mime handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <carl/carl.h>
.sp
.BI "carl_mime * carl_mime_init(CARL * " easy_handle ");"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcarl_mime_init(3)\fP creates a handle to a new empty mime structure
intended to be used with \fIeasy_handle\fP. This mime structure can be
subsequently filled using the mime API, then attached to \fIeasy_handle\fP
using option \fICARLOPT_MIMEPOST(3)\fP within a \fIcarl_easy_setopt(3)\fP
call.

Using a mime handle is the recommended way to post an HTTP form, format and
send a multi-part e-mail with SMTP or upload such an e-mail to an IMAP server.

.SH AVAILABILITY
As long as at least one of HTTP, SMTP or IMAP is enabled. Added in 7.56.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
A mime struct handle, or NULL upon failure.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf

 CARL *easy = carl_easy_init();
 carl_mime *mime;
 carl_mimepart *part;

 /* Build an HTTP form with a single field named "data", */
 mime = carl_mime_init(easy);
 part = carl_mime_addpart(mime);
 carl_mime_data(part, "This is the field data", CARL_ZERO_TERMINATED);
 carl_mime_name(part, "data");

 /* Post and send it. */
 carl_easy_setopt(easy, CARLOPT_MIMEPOST, mime);
 carl_easy_setopt(easy, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
 carl_easy_perform(easy);

 /* Clean-up. */
 carl_easy_cleanup(easy);
 carl_mime_free(mime);

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_mime_addpart "(3),"
.BR carl_mime_free "(3),"
.BR CARLOPT_MIMEPOST "(3)"
