.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH carl_multi_wait 3 "12 Jul 2012" "libcarl 7.28.0" "libcarl Manual"
.SH NAME
carl_multi_wait - polls on all easy handles in a multi handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLMcode carl_multi_wait(CARLM *multi_handle,
                          struct carl_waitfd extra_fds[],
                          unsigned int extra_nfds,
                          int timeout_ms,
                          int *numfds);
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcarl_multi_wait(3)\fP polls all file descriptors used by the carl easy
handles contained in the given multi handle set.  It will block until activity
is detected on at least one of the handles or \fItimeout_ms\fP has passed.
Alternatively, if the multi handle has a pending internal timeout that has a
shorter expiry time than \fItimeout_ms\fP, that shorter time will be used
instead to make sure timeout accuracy is reasonably kept.

The calling application may pass additional carl_waitfd structures which are
similar to \fIpoll(2)\fP's pollfd structure to be waited on in the same call.

On completion, if \fInumfds\fP is non-NULL, it will be populated with the
total number of file descriptors on which interesting events occurred. This
number can include both libcarl internal descriptors as well as descriptors
provided in \fIextra_fds\fP.

If no extra file descriptors are provided and libcarl has no file descriptor
to offer to wait for, this function will return immediately. (Try
\fIcarl_multi_poll(3)\fP instead if you rather avoid this behavior.)

This function is encouraged to be used instead of select(3) when using the
multi interface to allow applications to easier circumvent the common problem
with 1024 maximum file descriptors.
.SH carl_waitfd
.nf
struct carl_waitfd {
  carl_socket_t fd;
  short events;
  short revents;
};
.fi
.IP CARL_WAIT_POLLIN
Bit flag to carl_waitfd.events indicating the socket should poll on read
events such as new data received.
.IP CARL_WAIT_POLLPRI
Bit flag to carl_waitfd.events indicating the socket should poll on high
priority read events such as out of band data.
.IP CARL_WAIT_POLLOUT
Bit flag to carl_waitfd.events indicating the socket should poll on write
events such as the socket being clear to write without blocking.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *easy_handle;
CARLM *multi_handle;

/* add the individual easy handle */
carl_multi_add_handle(multi_handle, easy_handle);

do {
  CARLMcode mc;
  int numfds;

  mc = carl_multi_perform(multi_handle, &still_running);

  if(mc == CARLM_OK ) {
    /* wait for activity, timeout or "nothing" */
    mc = carl_multi_wait(multi_handle, NULL, 0, 1000, &numfds);
  }

  if(mc != CARLM_OK) {
    fprintf(stderr, "carl_multi failed, code %d.\\n", mc);
    break;
  }

  /* 'numfds' being zero means either a timeout or no file descriptors to
     wait for. Try timeout on first occurrence, then assume no file
     descriptors and no file descriptors to wait for means wait for 100
     milliseconds. */

  if(!numfds) {
    repeats++; /* count number of repeated zero numfds */
    if(repeats > 1) {
      WAITMS(100); /* sleep 100 milliseconds */
    }
  }
  else
    repeats = 0;

} while(still_running);

carl_multi_remove_handle(multi_handle, easy_handle);
.fi
.SH RETURN VALUE
CARLMcode type, general libcarl multi interface error code. See
\fIlibcarl-errors(3)\fP
.SH AVAILABILITY
This function was added in libcarl 7.28.0.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_multi_fdset "(3), " carl_multi_perform "(3)", carl_multi_poll "(3) ",
