.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH carl_easy_perform 3 "5 Mar 2001" "libcarl 7.7" "libcarl Manual"
.SH NAME
carl_easy_perform - perform a blocking file transfer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <carl/carl.h>
.sp
.BI "CARLcode carl_easy_perform(CARL *" easy_handle ");"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
Invoke this function after \fIcarl_easy_init(3)\fP and all the
\fIcarl_easy_setopt(3)\fP calls are made, and will perform the transfer as
described in the options. It must be called with the same \fBeasy_handle\fP as
input as the \fIcarl_easy_init(3)\fP call returned.

\fIcarl_easy_perform(3)\fP performs the entire request in a blocking manner
and returns when done, or if it failed. For non-blocking behavior, see
\fIcarl_multi_perform(3)\fP.

You can do any amount of calls to \fIcarl_easy_perform(3)\fP while using the
same \fBeasy_handle\fP. If you intend to transfer more than one file, you are
even encouraged to do so. libcarl will then attempt to re-use the same
connection for the following transfers, thus making the operations faster,
less CPU intense and using less network resources. Just note that you will
have to use \fIcarl_easy_setopt(3)\fP between the invokes to set options for
the following carl_easy_perform.

You must never call this function simultaneously from two places using the
same \fBeasy_handle\fP. Let the function return first before invoking it
another time. If you want parallel transfers, you must use several carl
easy_handles.

While the \fBeasy_handle\fP is added to a multi handle, it cannot be used by
\fIcarl_easy_perform(3)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
CARLE_OK (0) means everything was ok, non-zero means an error occurred as
.I <carl/carl.h>
defines - see \fIlibcarl-errors(3)\fP. If the \fICARLOPT_ERRORBUFFER(3)\fP was
set with \fIcarl_easy_setopt(3)\fP there will be a readable error message in
the error buffer when non-zero is returned.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  CARLcode res;
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
  res = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_easy_init "(3), " carl_easy_setopt "(3), "
.BR carl_multi_add_handle "(3), " carl_multi_perform "(3), "
.BR libcarl-errors "(3), "
