.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH carl_formget 3 "20 June 2006" "libcarl 7.15.5" "libcarl Manual"
.SH NAME
carl_formget - serialize a previously built multipart/formdata HTTP POST chain
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <carl/carl.h>

int carl_formget(struct carl_httppost * form, void *userp,
                  carl_formget_callback append );
.SH DESCRIPTION
carl_formget() is used to serialize data previously built/appended with
\fIcarl_formadd(3)\fP. Accepts a void pointer as second argument named
\fIuserp\fP which will be passed as the first argument to the
carl_formget_callback function.

.BI "typedef size_t (*carl_formget_callback)(void *" userp, " const char *" buf,
.BI " size_t " len ");"

The carl_formget_callback will be executed for each part of the HTTP POST
chain. The character buffer passed to the callback must not be freed. The
callback should return the buffer length passed to it on success.

If the \fBCARLFORM_STREAM\fP option is used in the formpost, it will prevent
\fIcarl_formget(3)\fP from working until you've performed the actual HTTP
request as only then will libcarl get the actual read callback to use!
.SH RETURN VALUE
0 means everything was ok, non-zero means an error occurred
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf

 size_t print_httppost_callback(void *arg, const char *buf, size_t len)
 {
   fwrite(buf, len, 1, stdout);
   (*(size_t *) arg) += len;
   return len;
 }

 size_t print_httppost(struct carl_httppost *post)
 {
   size_t total_size = 0;
   if(carl_formget(post, &total_size, print_httppost_callback)) {
     return (size_t) -1;
   }
   return total_size;
 }
.SH AVAILABILITY
This function was added in libcarl 7.15.5. The form API is deprecated in
libcarl 7.56.0.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_formadd "(3), " carl_mime_init "(3)"
