.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH carl_multi_init 3 "1 March 2002" "libcarl 7.9.5" "libcarl Manual"
.SH NAME
carl_multi_init - create a multi handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <carl/carl.h>
.sp
.BI "CARLM *carl_multi_init( );"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function returns a CARLM handle to be used as input to all the other
multi-functions, sometimes referred to as a multi handle in some places in the
documentation. This init call MUST have a corresponding call to
\fIcarl_multi_cleanup(3)\fP when the operation is complete.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If this function returns NULL, something went wrong and you cannot use the
other carl functions.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_multi_cleanup "(3)," carl_global_init "(3)," carl_easy_init "(3)"
