.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH carl_mime_name 3 "22 August 2017" "libcarl 7.56.0" "libcarl Manual"
.SH NAME
carl_mime_name - set a mime part's name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <carl/carl.h>
.sp
.BI "CARLcode carl_mime_name(carl_mimepart * " part ", const char * " name ");"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcarl_mime_name(3)\fP sets a mime part's name. This is the way HTTP form
fields are named.

\fIpart\fP is the part's handle to assign a name to.

\fIname\fP points to the null-terminated name string.

The name string is copied into the part, thus the associated storage may
safely be released or reused after call. Setting a part's name twice is valid:
only the value set by the last call is retained. It is possible to "unname" a
part by setting \fIname\fP to NULL.
.SH AVAILABILITY
As long as at least one of HTTP, SMTP or IMAP is enabled. Added in 7.56.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
CARLE_OK or a CARL error code upon failure.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
 carl_mime *mime;
 carl_mimepart *part;

 /* create a mime handle */
 mime = carl_mime_init(easy);

 /* add a part */
 part = carl_mime_addpart(mime);

 /* give the part a name */
 carl_mime_name(part, "shoe_size");
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_mime_addpart "(3),"
.BR carl_mime_data "(3),"
.BR carl_mime_type "(3)"
