.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH carl_mime_data 3 "22 August 2017" "libcarl 7.56.0" "libcarl Manual"
.SH NAME
carl_mime_data - set a mime part's body data from memory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <carl/carl.h>
.sp
.BI "CARLcode carl_mime_data(carl_mimepart * " part ", const char * " data
.BI ", size_t " datasize ");"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcarl_mime_data(3)\fP sets a mime part's body content from memory data.

\fIdata\fP points to the data bytes: those are copied to the part and their
storage may safely be reused after call.
\fIdatasize\fP is the number of data bytes: it can be set to
\fICARL_ZERO_TERMINATED\fP to indicate \fIdata\fP is a null-terminated
character string.
\fIpart\fP is the part's to assign contents to.

Setting a part's contents twice is valid: only the value set by the last call
is retained. It is possible to unassign part's contents by setting
\fIdata\fP to NULL.

Setting very large data is memory consuming: one might consider using
\fIcarl_mime_data_cb(3)\fP in such a case.
.SH AVAILABILITY
As long as at least one of HTTP, SMTP or IMAP is enabled. Added in 7.56.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
CARLE_OK or a CARL error code upon failure.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
 carl_mime *mime;
 carl_mimepart *part;

 /* create a mime handle */
 mime = carl_mime_init(easy);

 /* add a part */
 part = carl_mime_addpart(mime);

 /* add data to the part  */
 carl_mime_data(part, "raw contents to send", CARL_ZERO_TERMINATED);
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_mime_addpart "(3),"
.BR carl_mime_data_cb "(3),"
.BR carl_mime_name "(3),"
.BR carl_mime_type "(3)"
