.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH carl_easy_option_by_id 3 "27 Aug 2020" "libcarl 7.73.0" "libcarl Manual"
.SH NAME
carl_easy_option_by_id - find an easy setopt option by id
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

const struct carl_easyoption *carl_easy_option_by_id(CARLoption id);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Given a CARLoption \fBid\fP, this function returns a pointer to the
carl_easyoption struct, holding information about the
\fIcarl_easy_setopt(3)\fP option using that id. The option id is the CARLOPT_
prefix ones provided in the standard carl/carl.h header file. This function
will return the non-aliases version for the cases where there is an alias
function as well.

If libcarl has no option with the given id, this function returns NULL.
.SH AVAILABILITY
This function was added in libcarl 7.73.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
A pointer to the carl_easyoption struct for the option or NULL.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_easy_option_by_name "(3)," carl_easy_option_next "(3),"
.BR carl_easy_setopt "(3),"
