.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH carl_multi_cleanup 3 "1 March 2002" "libcarl 7.9.5" "libcarl Manual"
.SH NAME
carl_multi_cleanup - close down a multi session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <carl/carl.h>
.sp
.BI "CARLMcode carl_multi_cleanup( CARLM *multi_handle );"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
Cleans up and removes a whole multi stack. It does not free or touch any
individual easy handles in any way - they still need to be closed
individually, using the usual \fIcarl_easy_cleanup(3)\fP way. The order of
cleaning up should be:

1 - \fIcarl_multi_remove_handle(3)\fP before any easy handles are cleaned up

2 - \fIcarl_easy_cleanup(3)\fP can now be called independently since the easy
handle is no longer connected to the multi handle

3 - \fIcarl_multi_cleanup(3)\fP should be called when all easy handles are
removed

Passing in a NULL pointer in \fImulti_handle\fP will make this function return
CARLM_BAD_HANDLE immediately with no other action.
.SH RETURN VALUE
CARLMcode type, general libcarl multi interface error code. On success,
CARLM_OK is returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_multi_init "(3)," carl_easy_cleanup "(3)," carl_easy_init "(3)"
