.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH carl_easy_option_by_name 3 "27 Aug 2020" "libcarl 7.73.0" "libcarl Manual"
.SH NAME
carl_easy_option_by_name - find an easy setopt option by name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

const struct carl_easyoption *carl_easy_option_by_name(const char *name);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Given a \fBname\fP, this function returns a pointer to the carl_easyoption
struct, holding information about the \fIcarl_easy_setopt(3)\fP option using
that name. The name should be specified without the "CARLOPT_" prefix and the
name comparison is made case insensitive.

If libcarl has no option with the given name, this function returns NULL.
.SH AVAILABILITY
This function was added in libcarl 7.73.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
A pointer to the carl_easyoption struct for the option or NULL.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_easy_option_next "(3)," carl_easy_option_by_id "(3),"
.BR carl_easy_setopt "(3),"
