.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH carl_mime_filename 3 "22 August 2017" "libcarl 7.56.0" "libcarl Manual"
.SH NAME
carl_mime_filename - set a mime part's remote file name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <carl/carl.h>
.sp
.BI "CARLcode carl_mime_filename(carl_mimepart * " part ,
.BI "const char * " filename ");"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcarl_mime_filename(3)\fP sets a mime part's remote file name. When remote
file name is set, content data is processed as a file, whatever is the part's
content source. A part's remote file name is transmitted to the server in the
associated Content-Disposition generated header.

\fIpart\fP is the part's handle to assign the remote file name to.

\fIfilename\fP points to the null-terminated file name string; it may be set
to NULL to remove a previously attached remote file name.

The remote file name string is copied into the part, thus the associated
storage may safely be released or reused after call. Setting a part's file
name twice is valid: only the value set by the last call is retained.
.SH AVAILABILITY
As long as at least one of HTTP, SMTP or IMAP is enabled. Added in 7.56.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
CARLE_OK or a CARL error code upon failure.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
 carl_mime *mime;
 carl_mimepart *part;

 /* create a mime handle */
 mime = carl_mime_init(easy);

 /* add a part */
 part = carl_mime_addpart(mime);

 /* send image data from memory */
 carl_mime_data(part, imagebuf, imagebuf_len);

 /* set a file name to make it look like a file upload */
 carl_mime_filename(part, "image.png");

 /* set name */
 carl_mime_name(part, "data");
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_mime_addpart "(3),"
.BR carl_mime_filedata "(3),"
.BR carl_mime_data "(3)"
