.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH libcarl-errors 3 "1 Jan 2010" "libcarl 7.20.0" "libcarl errors"
.SH NAME
libcarl-errors \- error codes in libcarl
.SH DESCRIPTION
This man page includes most, if not all, available error codes in libcarl.
Why they occur and possibly what you can do to fix the problem are also included.
.SH "CARLcode"
Almost all "easy" interface functions return a CARLcode error code. No matter
what, using the \fIcarl_easy_setopt(3)\fP option \fICARLOPT_ERRORBUFFER(3)\fP
is a good idea as it will give you a human readable error string that may
offer more details about the cause of the error than just the error code.
\fIcarl_easy_strerror(3)\fP can be called to get an error string from a given
CARLcode number.

CARLcode is one of the following:
.IP "CARLE_OK (0)"
All fine. Proceed as usual.
.IP "CARLE_UNSUPPORTED_PROTOCOL (1)"
The URL you passed to libcarl used a protocol that this libcarl does not
support. The support might be a compile-time option that you didn't use, it
can be a misspelled protocol string or just a protocol libcarl has no code
for.
.IP "CARLE_FAILED_INIT (2)"
Very early initialization code failed. This is likely to be an internal error
or problem, or a resource problem where something fundamental couldn't get
done at init time.
.IP "CARLE_URL_MALFORMAT (3)"
The URL was not properly formatted.
.IP "CARLE_NOT_BUILT_IN (4)"
A requested feature, protocol or option was not found built-in in this libcarl
due to a build-time decision. This means that a feature or option was not
enabled or explicitly disabled when libcarl was built and in order to get it
to function you have to get a rebuilt libcarl.
.IP "CARLE_COULDNT_RESOLVE_PROXY (5)"
Couldn't resolve proxy. The given proxy host could not be resolved.
.IP "CARLE_COULDNT_RESOLVE_HOST (6)"
Couldn't resolve host. The given remote host was not resolved.
.IP "CARLE_COULDNT_CONNECT (7)"
Failed to connect() to host or proxy.
.IP "CARLE_WEIRD_SERVER_REPLY (8)"
The server sent data libcarl couldn't parse. This error code was known as as
\fICARLE_FTP_WEIRD_SERVER_REPLY\fP before 7.51.0.
.IP "CARLE_REMOTE_ACCESS_DENIED (9)"
We were denied access to the resource given in the URL.  For FTP, this occurs
while trying to change to the remote directory.
.IP "CARLE_FTP_ACCEPT_FAILED (10)"
While waiting for the server to connect back when an active FTP session is
used, an error code was sent over the control connection or similar.
.IP "CARLE_FTP_WEIRD_PASS_REPLY (11)"
After having sent the FTP password to the server, libcarl expects a proper
reply. This error code indicates that an unexpected code was returned.
.IP "CARLE_FTP_ACCEPT_TIMEOUT (12)"
During an active FTP session while waiting for the server to connect, the
\fICARLOPT_ACCEPTTIMEOUT_MS(3)\fP (or the internal default) timeout expired.
.IP "CARLE_FTP_WEIRD_PASV_REPLY (13)"
libcarl failed to get a sensible result back from the server as a response to
either a PASV or a EPSV command. The server is flawed.
.IP "CARLE_FTP_WEIRD_227_FORMAT (14)"
FTP servers return a 227-line as a response to a PASV command. If libcarl
fails to parse that line, this return code is passed back.
.IP "CARLE_FTP_CANT_GET_HOST (15)"
An internal failure to lookup the host used for the new connection.
.IP "CARLE_HTTP2 (16)"
A problem was detected in the HTTP2 framing layer. This is somewhat generic
and can be one out of several problems, see the error buffer for details.
.IP "CARLE_FTP_COULDNT_SET_TYPE (17)"
Received an error when trying to set the transfer mode to binary or ASCII.
.IP "CARLE_PARTIAL_FILE (18)"
A file transfer was shorter or larger than expected. This happens when the
server first reports an expected transfer size, and then delivers data that
doesn't match the previously given size.
.IP "CARLE_FTP_COULDNT_RETR_FILE (19)"
This was either a weird reply to a 'RETR' command or a zero byte transfer
complete.
.IP "CARLE_QUOTE_ERROR (21)"
When sending custom "QUOTE" commands to the remote server, one of the commands
returned an error code that was 400 or higher (for FTP) or otherwise
indicated unsuccessful completion of the command.
.IP "CARLE_HTTP_RETURNED_ERROR (22)"
This is returned if \fICARLOPT_FAILONERROR(3)\fP is set TRUE and the HTTP
server returns an error code that is >= 400.
.IP "CARLE_WRITE_ERROR (23)"
An error occurred when writing received data to a local file, or an error was
returned to libcarl from a write callback.
.IP "CARLE_UPLOAD_FAILED (25)"
Failed starting the upload. For FTP, the server typically denied the STOR
command. The error buffer usually contains the server's explanation for this.
.IP "CARLE_READ_ERROR (26)"
There was a problem reading a local file or an error returned by the read
callback.
.IP "CARLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY (27)"
A memory allocation request failed. This is serious badness and
things are severely screwed up if this ever occurs.
.IP "CARLE_OPERATION_TIMEDOUT (28)"
Operation timeout. The specified time-out period was reached according to the
conditions.
.IP "CARLE_FTP_PORT_FAILED (30)"
The FTP PORT command returned error. This mostly happens when you haven't
specified a good enough address for libcarl to use. See
\fICARLOPT_FTPPORT(3)\fP.
.IP "CARLE_FTP_COULDNT_USE_REST (31)"
The FTP REST command returned error. This should never happen if the server is
sane.
.IP "CARLE_RANGE_ERROR (33)"
The server does not support or accept range requests.
.IP "CARLE_HTTP_POST_ERROR (34)"
This is an odd error that mainly occurs due to internal confusion.
.IP "CARLE_SSL_CONNECT_ERROR (35)"
A problem occurred somewhere in the SSL/TLS handshake. You really want the
error buffer and read the message there as it pinpoints the problem slightly
more. Could be certificates (file formats, paths, permissions), passwords, and
others.
.IP "CARLE_BAD_DOWNLOAD_RESUME (36)"
The download could not be resumed because the specified offset was out of the
file boundary.
.IP "CARLE_FILE_COULDNT_READ_FILE (37)"
A file given with FILE:// couldn't be opened. Most likely because the file
path doesn't identify an existing file. Did you check file permissions?
.IP "CARLE_LDAP_CANNOT_BIND (38)"
LDAP cannot bind. LDAP bind operation failed.
.IP "CARLE_LDAP_SEARCH_FAILED (39)"
LDAP search failed.
.IP "CARLE_FUNCTION_NOT_FOUND (41)"
Function not found. A required zlib function was not found.
.IP "CARLE_ABORTED_BY_CALLBACK (42)"
Aborted by callback. A callback returned "abort" to libcarl.
.IP "CARLE_BAD_FUNCTION_ARGUMENT (43)"
A function was called with a bad parameter.
.IP "CARLE_INTERFACE_FAILED (45)"
Interface error. A specified outgoing interface could not be used. Set which
interface to use for outgoing connections' source IP address with
\fICARLOPT_INTERFACE(3)\fP.
.IP "CARLE_TOO_MANY_REDIRECTS (47)"
Too many redirects. When following redirects, libcarl hit the maximum amount.
Set your limit with \fICARLOPT_MAXREDIRS(3)\fP.
.IP "CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION (48)"
An option passed to libcarl is not recognized/known. Refer to the appropriate
documentation. This is most likely a problem in the program that uses
libcarl. The error buffer might contain more specific information about which
exact option it concerns.
.IP "CARLE_TELNET_OPTION_SYNTAX (49)"
A telnet option string was Illegally formatted.
.IP "CARLE_GOT_NOTHING (52)"
Nothing was returned from the server, and under the circumstances, getting
nothing is considered an error.
.IP "CARLE_SSL_ENGINE_NOTFOUND (53)"
The specified crypto engine wasn't found.
.IP "CARLE_SSL_ENGINE_SETFAILED (54)"
Failed setting the selected SSL crypto engine as default!
.IP "CARLE_SEND_ERROR (55)"
Failed sending network data.
.IP "CARLE_RECV_ERROR (56)"
Failure with receiving network data.
.IP "CARLE_SSL_CERTPROBLEM (58)"
problem with the local client certificate.
.IP "CARLE_SSL_CIPHER (59)"
Couldn't use specified cipher.
.IP "CARLE_PEER_FAILED_VERIFICATION (60)"
The remote server's SSL certificate or SSH md5 fingerprint was deemed not OK.
This error code has been unified with CARLE_SSL_CACERT since 7.62.0. Its
previous value was 51.
.IP "CARLE_BAD_CONTENT_ENCODING (61)"
Unrecognized transfer encoding.
.IP "CARLE_LDAP_INVALID_URL (62)"
Invalid LDAP URL.
.IP "CARLE_FILESIZE_EXCEEDED (63)"
Maximum file size exceeded.
.IP "CARLE_USE_SSL_FAILED (64)"
Requested FTP SSL level failed.
.IP "CARLE_SEND_FAIL_REWIND (65)"
When doing a send operation carl had to rewind the data to retransmit, but the
rewinding operation failed.
.IP "CARLE_SSL_ENGINE_INITFAILED (66)"
Initiating the SSL Engine failed.
.IP "CARLE_LOGIN_DENIED (67)"
The remote server denied carl to login (Added in 7.13.1)
.IP "CARLE_TFTP_NOTFOUND (68)"
File not found on TFTP server.
.IP "CARLE_TFTP_PERM (69)"
Permission problem on TFTP server.
.IP "CARLE_REMOTE_DISK_FULL (70)"
Out of disk space on the server.
.IP "CARLE_TFTP_ILLEGAL (71)"
Illegal TFTP operation.
.IP "CARLE_TFTP_UNKNOWNID (72)"
Unknown TFTP transfer ID.
.IP "CARLE_REMOTE_FILE_EXISTS (73)"
File already exists and will not be overwritten.
.IP "CARLE_TFTP_NOSUCHUSER (74)"
This error should never be returned by a properly functioning TFTP server.
.IP "CARLE_CONV_FAILED (75)"
Character conversion failed.
.IP "CARLE_CONV_REQD (76)"
Caller must register conversion callbacks.
.IP "CARLE_SSL_CACERT_BADFILE (77)"
Problem with reading the SSL CA cert (path? access rights?)
.IP "CARLE_REMOTE_FILE_NOT_FOUND (78)"
The resource referenced in the URL does not exist.
.IP "CARLE_SSH (79)"
An unspecified error occurred during the SSH session.
.IP "CARLE_SSL_SHUTDOWN_FAILED (80)"
Failed to shut down the SSL connection.
.IP "CARLE_AGAIN (81)"
Socket is not ready for send/recv wait till it's ready and try again. This
return code is only returned from \fIcarl_easy_recv(3)\fP and
\fIcarl_easy_send(3)\fP (Added in 7.18.2)
.IP "CARLE_SSL_CRL_BADFILE (82)"
Failed to load CRL file (Added in 7.19.0)
.IP "CARLE_SSL_ISSUER_ERROR (83)"
Issuer check failed (Added in 7.19.0)
.IP "CARLE_FTP_PRET_FAILED (84)"
The FTP server does not understand the PRET command at all or does not support
the given argument. Be careful when using \fICARLOPT_CUSTOMREQUEST(3)\fP, a
custom LIST command will be sent with PRET CMD before PASV as well. (Added in
7.20.0)
.IP "CARLE_RTSP_CSEQ_ERROR (85)"
Mismatch of RTSP CSeq numbers.
.IP "CARLE_RTSP_SESSION_ERROR (86)"
Mismatch of RTSP Session Identifiers.
.IP "CARLE_FTP_BAD_FILE_LIST (87)"
Unable to parse FTP file list (during FTP wildcard downloading).
.IP "CARLE_CHUNK_FAILED (88)"
Chunk callback reported error.
.IP "CARLE_NO_CONNECTION_AVAILABLE (89)"
(For internal use only, will never be returned by libcarl) No connection
available, the session will be queued. (added in 7.30.0)
.IP "CARLE_SSL_PINNEDPUBKEYNOTMATCH (90)"
Failed to match the pinned key specified with \fICARLOPT_PINNEDPUBLICKEY(3)\fP.
.IP "CARLE_SSL_INVALIDCERTSTATUS (91)"
Status returned failure when asked with \fICARLOPT_SSL_VERIFYSTATUS(3)\fP.
.IP "CARLE_HTTP2_STREAM (92)"
Stream error in the HTTP/2 framing layer.
.IP "CARLE_RECURSIVE_API_CALL (93)"
An API function was called from inside a callback.
.IP "CARLE_AUTH_ERROR (94)"
An authentication function returned an error.
.IP "CARLE_HTTP3 (95)"
A problem was detected in the HTTP/3 layer. This is somewhat generic and can
be one out of several problems, see the error buffer for details.
.IP "CARLE_QUIC_CONNECT_ERROR (96)"
QUIC connection error. This error may be caused by an SSL library error. QUIC
is the protocol used for HTTP/3 transfers.
.IP "CARLE_OBSOLETE*"
These error codes will never be returned. They were used in an old libcarl
version and are currently unused.
.SH "CARLMcode"
This is the generic return code used by functions in the libcarl multi
interface. Also consider \fIcarl_multi_strerror(3)\fP.
.IP "CARLM_CALL_MULTI_PERFORM (-1)"
This is not really an error. It means you should call
\fIcarl_multi_perform(3)\fP again without doing select() or similar in
between. Before version 7.20.0 (released on February 9 2010) this could be returned by
\fIcarl_multi_perform(3)\fP, but in later versions this return code is never
used.
.IP "CARLM_CALL_MULTI_SOCKET (-1)"
An alias for CARLM_CALL_MULTI_PERFORM. Never returned by modern libcarl
versions.
.IP "CARLM_OK (0)"
Things are fine.
.IP "CARLM_BAD_HANDLE (1)"
The passed-in handle is not a valid CARLM handle.
.IP "CARLM_BAD_EASY_HANDLE (2)"
An easy handle was not good/valid. It could mean that it isn't an easy handle
at all, or possibly that the handle already is in use by this or another multi
handle.
.IP "CARLM_OUT_OF_MEMORY (3)"
You are doomed.
.IP "CARLM_INTERNAL_ERROR (4)"
This can only be returned if libcarl bugs. Please report it to us!
.IP "CARLM_BAD_SOCKET (5)"
The passed-in socket is not a valid one that libcarl already knows about.
(Added in 7.15.4)
.IP "CARLM_UNKNOWN_OPTION (6)"
carl_multi_setopt() with unsupported option
(Added in 7.15.4)
.IP "CARLM_ADDED_ALREADY (7)"
An easy handle already added to a multi handle was attempted to get added a
second time. (Added in 7.32.1)
.IP "CARLM_RECURSIVE_API_CALL (8)"
An API function was called from inside a callback.
.IP "CARLM_WAKEUP_FAILURE (9)"
Wakeup is unavailable or failed.
.IP "CARLM_BAD_FUNCTION_ARGUMENT (10)"
A function was called with a bad parameter.
.SH "CARLSHcode"
The "share" interface will return a CARLSHcode to indicate when an error has
occurred.  Also consider \fIcarl_share_strerror(3)\fP.
.IP "CARLSHE_OK (0)"
All fine. Proceed as usual.
.IP "CARLSHE_BAD_OPTION (1)"
An invalid option was passed to the function.
.IP "CARLSHE_IN_USE (2)"
The share object is currently in use.
.IP "CARLSHE_INVALID (3)"
An invalid share object was passed to the function.
.IP "CARLSHE_NOMEM (4)"
Not enough memory was available.
(Added in 7.12.0)
.IP "CARLSHE_NOT_BUILT_IN (5)"
The requested sharing could not be done because the library you use don't have
that particular feature enabled. (Added in 7.23.0)
.SH "CARLUcode"
.IP "CARLUE_BAD_HANDLE (1)"
An argument that should be a CARLU pointer was passed in as a NULL.
.IP "CARLUE_BAD_PARTPOINTER (2)"
A NULL pointer was passed to the 'part' argument of \fIcarl_url_get(3)\fP.
.IP "CARLUE_MALFORMED_INPUT (3)"
A malformed input was passed to a URL API function.
.IP "CARLUE_BAD_PORT_NUMBER (4)"
The port number was not a decimal number between 0 and 65535.
.IP "CARLUE_UNSUPPORTED_SCHEME (5)"
This libcarl build doesn't support the given URL scheme.
.IP "CARLUE_URLDECODE (6)"
URL decode error, most likely because of rubbish in the input.
.IP "CARLUE_OUT_OF_MEMORY (7)"
A memory function failed.
.IP "CARLUE_USER_NOT_ALLOWED (8)"
Credentials was passed in the URL when prohibited.
.IP "CARLUE_UNKNOWN_PART (9)"
An unknown part ID was passed to a URL API function.
.IP "CARLUE_NO_SCHEME (10)"
There is no scheme part in the URL.
.IP "CARLUE_NO_USER (11)"
There is no user part in the URL.
.IP "CARLUE_NO_PASSWORD (12)"
There is no password part in the URL.
.IP "CARLUE_NO_OPTIONS (13)"
There is no options part in the URL.
.IP "CARLUE_NO_HOST (14)"
There is no host part in the URL.
.IP "CARLUE_NO_PORT (15)"
There is no port part in the URL.
.IP "CARLUE_NO_QUERY (16)"
There is no query part in the URL.
.IP "CARLUE_NO_FRAGMENT (17)"
There is no fragment part in the URL.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_easy_strerror "(3), " carl_multi_strerror "(3), "
.BR carl_share_strerror "(3), " CARLOPT_ERRORBUFFER "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_VERBOSE "(3), " CARLOPT_DEBUGFUNCTION "(3) "
