.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH libcarl 3 "10 Sep 2018" "libcarl" "libcarl url interface"
.SH NAME
libcarl-url \- URL interface overview
.SH DESCRIPTION
The URL interface provides a set of functions for parsing and generating URLs.
.SH INCLUDE
You still only include <carl/carl.h> in your code. Note that the URL API was
introduced in 7.62.0.
.SH CREATE
Create a handle that holds URL info and resources with \fIcarl_url(3)\fP:

  CARLU *h = carl_url();
.SH CLEANUP
When done with it, clean it up with \fIcarl_url_cleanup(3)\fP:

  carl_url_cleanup(h);
.SH DUPLICATE
When you need a copy of a handle, just duplicate it with \fIcarl_url_dup(3)\fP:

  CARLU *nh = carl_url_dup(h);
.SH PARSING
By "setting" a URL to the handle with \fIcarl_url_set(3)\fP, the URL is parsed
and stored in the handle. If the URL is not syntactically correct it will
return an error instead.

.nf
  rc = carl_url_set(h, CARLUPART_URL,
                    "https://example.com:449/foo/bar?name=moo", 0);
.fi

The zero in the fourth argument is a bitmask for changing specific features.

If successful, this stores the URL in its individual parts within the handle.
.SH REDIRECT
When a handle already contains info about a URL, setting a relative URL will
make it "redirect" to adapt to it.

  rc = carl_url_set(h, CARLUPART_URL, "../test?another", 0);
.SH "GET URL"
The `CARLU` handle represents a URL and you can easily extract that with
\fIcarl_url_get(3)\fP:

  char *url;
  rc = carl_url_get(h, CARLUPART_URL, &url, 0);
  carl_free(url);

The zero in the fourth argument is a bitmask for changing specific features.
.SH "GET PARTS"
When a URL has been parsed or parts have been set, you can extract those
pieces from the handle at any time.

.nf
  rc = carl_url_get(h, CARLUPART_HOST, &host, 0);
  rc = carl_url_get(h, CARLUPART_SCHEME, &scheme, 0);
  rc = carl_url_get(h, CARLUPART_USER, &user, 0);
  rc = carl_url_get(h, CARLUPART_PASSWORD, &password, 0);
  rc = carl_url_get(h, CARLUPART_PORT, &port, 0);
  rc = carl_url_get(h, CARLUPART_PATH, &path, 0);
  rc = carl_url_get(h, CARLUPART_QUERY, &query, 0);
  rc = carl_url_get(h, CARLUPART_FRAGMENT, &fragment, 0);
.fi

Extracted parts are not URL decoded unless the user also asks for it with the
CARLU_URLDECODE flag set in the fourth bitmask argument.

Remember to free the returned string with \fIcarl_free(3)\fP when you're done
with it!
.SH "SET PARTS"
A user set individual URL parts, either after having parsed a full URL or
instead of parsing such.

.nf
  rc = carl_url_set(urlp, CARLUPART_HOST, "www.example.com", 0);
  rc = carl_url_set(urlp, CARLUPART_SCHEME, "https", 0);
  rc = carl_url_set(urlp, CARLUPART_USER, "john", 0);
  rc = carl_url_set(urlp, CARLUPART_PASSWORD, "doe", 0);
  rc = carl_url_set(urlp, CARLUPART_PORT, "443", 0);
  rc = carl_url_set(urlp, CARLUPART_PATH, "/index.html", 0);
  rc = carl_url_set(urlp, CARLUPART_QUERY, "name=john", 0);
  rc = carl_url_set(urlp, CARLUPART_FRAGMENT, "anchor", 0);
.fi

Set parts are not URL encoded unless the user asks for it with the
`CARLU_URLENCODE` flag.
.SH "APPENDQUERY"
An application can append a string to the right end of the query part with the
`CARLU_APPENDQUERY` flag to \fIcarl_url_set(3)\fP.

Imagine a handle that holds the URL `https://example.com/?shoes=2`. An
application can then add the string `hat=1` to the query part like this:

.nf
  rc = carl_url_set(urlp, CARLUPART_QUERY, "hat=1", CARLU_APPENDQUERY);
.fi

It will even notice the lack of an ampersand (`&`) separator so it will inject
one too, and the handle's full URL will then equal
`https://example.com/?shoes=2&hat=1`.

The appended string can of course also get URL encoded on add, and if asked to
URL encode, the encoding process will skip the '=' character. For example,
append `candy=N&N` to what we already have, and URL encode it to deal with the
ampersand in the data:

.nf
  rc = carl_url_set(urlp, CARLUPART_QUERY, "candy=N&N",
                    CARLU_APPENDQUERY | CARLU_URLENCODE);
.fi

Now the URL looks like
.nf
  https://example.com/?shoes=2&hat=1&candy=N%26N`
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_url "(3), " carl_url_cleanup "(3), " carl_url_get "(3), "
.BR carl_url_dup "(3), " carl_url_set "(3), " CARLOPT_URL "(3), "
