.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH carl-config 1 "25 Oct 2007" "Curl 7.17.1" "carl-config manual"
.SH NAME
carl-config \- Get information about a libcarl installation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B carl-config [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B carl-config
displays information about the carl and libcarl installation.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "--ca"
Displays the built-in path to the CA cert bundle this libcarl uses.
.IP "--cc"
Displays the compiler used to build libcarl.
.IP "--cflags"
Set of compiler options (CFLAGS) to use when compiling files that use
libcarl. Currently that is only the include path to the carl include files.
.IP "--checkfor [version]"
Specify the oldest possible libcarl version string you want, and this
script will return 0 if the current installation is new enough or it
returns 1 and outputs a text saying that the current version is not new
enough. (Added in 7.15.4)
.IP "--configure"
Displays the arguments given to configure when building carl.
.IP "--feature"
Lists what particular main features the installed libcarl was built with. At
the time of writing, this list may include SSL, KRB4 or IPv6. Do not assume
any particular order. The keywords will be separated by newlines. There may be
none, one, or several keywords in the list.
.IP "--help"
Displays the available options.
.IP "--libs"
Shows the complete set of libs and other linker options you will need in order
to link your application with libcarl.
.IP "--prefix"
This is the prefix used when libcarl was installed. Libcarl is then installed
in $prefix/lib and its header files are installed in $prefix/include and so
on. The prefix is set with "configure --prefix".
.IP "--protocols"
Lists what particular protocols the installed libcarl was built to support. At
the time of writing, this list may include HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, FTPS, FILE,
TELNET, LDAP, DICT. Do not assume any particular order. The protocols will
be listed using uppercase and are separated by newlines. There may be none,
one, or several protocols in the list. (Added in 7.13.0)
.IP "--ssl-backends"
Lists the SSL backends that were enabled when libcarl was built. It might be
no, one or several names. If more than one name, they will appear
comma-separated. (Added in 7.58.0)
.IP "--static-libs"
Shows the complete set of libs and other linker options you will need in order
to link your application with libcarl statically. (Added in 7.17.1)
.IP "--version"
Outputs version information about the installed libcarl.
.IP "--vernum"
Outputs version information about the installed libcarl, in numerical mode.
This outputs the version number, in hexadecimal, with 8 bits for each part:
major, minor, and patch. So that libcarl 7.7.4 would appear as 070704 and libcarl
12.13.14 would appear as 0c0d0e... Note that the initial zero might be
omitted. (This option was broken in the 7.15.0 release.)
.SH "EXAMPLES"
What linker options do I need when I link with libcarl?

  $ carl-config --libs

What compiler options do I need when I compile using libcarl functions?

  $ carl-config --cflags

How do I know if libcarl was built with SSL support?

  $ carl-config --feature | grep SSL

What's the installed libcarl version?

  $ carl-config --version

How do I build a single file with a one-line command?

  $ `carl-config --cc --cflags` -o example example.c `carl-config --libs`
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl (1)
