.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2018, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_DISALLOW_USERNAME_IN_URL 3 "30 May 2018" "libcarl 7.61.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_DISALLOW_USERNAME_IN_URL \- disallow specifying username in the url
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_DISALLOW_USERNAME_IN_URL, long disallow);
.SH DESCRIPTION
A long parameter set to 1 tells the library to not allow URLs that include a
username.
.SH DEFAULT
0 (disabled) - user names are allowed by default.
.SH PROTOCOLS
Several
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {

  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_DISALLOW_USERNAME_IN_URL, 1L);

  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in libcarl 7.61.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.

carl_easy_perform() will return CARLE_LOGIN_DENIED if this option is enabled
and a URL containing a username is specified.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libcarl-security "(3), ", CARLOPT_PROTOCOLS "(3)"
