.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_HAPPY_EYEBALLS_TIMEOUT_MS 3 "1 Feb 2018" "libcarl 7.59.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_HAPPY_EYEBALLS_TIMEOUT_MS \- head start for ipv6 for happy eyeballs
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_HAPPY_EYEBALLS_TIMEOUT_MS, long timeout);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Happy eyeballs is an algorithm that attempts to connect to both IPv4 and IPv6
addresses for dual-stack hosts, preferring IPv6 first for \fItimeout\fP
milliseconds. If the IPv6 address cannot be connected to within that time then
a connection attempt is made to the IPv4 address in parallel. The first
connection to be established is the one that is used.

The range of suggested useful values for \fItimeout\fP is limited. Happy
Eyeballs RFC 6555 says "It is RECOMMENDED that connection attempts be paced
150-250 ms apart to balance human factors against network load." libcarl
currently defaults to 200 ms. Firefox and Chrome currently default to 300 ms.
.SH DEFAULT
CARL_HET_DEFAULT (currently defined as 200L)
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_HAPPY_EYEBALLS_TIMEOUT_MS, 300L);

  carl_easy_perform(carl);

  /* always cleanup */
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.59.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK
