.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2019, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_LOCALPORTRANGE 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_LOCALPORTRANGE \- number of additional local ports to try
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_LOCALPORTRANGE,
                          long range);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long. The \fIrange\fP argument is the number of attempts libcarl will
make to find a working local port number. It starts with the given
\fICARLOPT_LOCALPORT(3)\fP and adds one to the number for each retry. Setting
this option to 1 or below will make libcarl do only one try for the exact port
number. Port numbers by nature are scarce resources that will be busy at times
so setting this value to something too low might cause unnecessary connection
setup failures.
.SH DEFAULT
1
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/foo.bin");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_LOCALPORT, 49152L);
  /* and try 20 more ports following that */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_LOCALPORTRANGE, 20L);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.15.2
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_LOCALPORT "(3), " CARLOPT_INTERFACE "(3), "
