.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_SUPPRESS_CONNECT_HEADERS 3 "13 February 2017" "libcarl 7.54.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_SUPPRESS_CONNECT_HEADERS \- Suppress proxy CONNECT response headers from user callbacks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_SUPPRESS_CONNECT_HEADERS, long onoff);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
When \fICARLOPT_HTTPPROXYTUNNEL(3)\fP is used and a CONNECT request is made,
suppress proxy CONNECT response headers from the user callback functions
\fICARLOPT_HEADERFUNCTION(3)\fP and \fICARLOPT_WRITEFUNCTION(3)\fP.

Proxy CONNECT response headers can complicate header processing since it's
essentially a separate set of headers. You can enable this option to suppress
those headers.

For example let's assume an HTTPS URL is to be retrieved via CONNECT. On
success there would normally be two sets of headers, and each header line sent
to the header function and/or the write function. The data given to the
callbacks would look like this:

.nf
HTTP/1.1 200 Connection established
{headers}...

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
{headers}...

{body}...
.fi

However by enabling this option the CONNECT response headers are suppressed, so
the data given to the callbacks would look like this:

.nf
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
{headers}...

{body}...
.fi

.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_HEADER, 1L);
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PROXY, "http://foo:3128");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_HTTPPROXYTUNNEL, 1L);
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_SUPPRESS_CONNECT_HEADERS, 1L);

  carl_easy_perform(carl);

  /* always cleanup */
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.54.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
CARLE_OK or an error such as CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_HEADER "(3), " CARLOPT_PROXY "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_HTTPPROXYTUNNEL "(3), "
