.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 2018, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_DOH_URL 3 "18 Jun 2018" "libcarl 7.62.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_DOH_URL \- provide the DNS-over-HTTPS URL
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_DOH_URL, char *URL);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass in a pointer to a \fIURL\fP for the DOH server to use for name
resolving. The parameter should be a char * to a null-terminated string which
must be URL-encoded in the following format: "https://host:port/path". It MUST
specify a HTTPS URL.

libcarl doesn't validate the syntax or use this variable until the transfer is
issued. Even if you set a crazy value here, \fIcarl_easy_setopt(3)\fP will
still return \fICARLE_OK\fP.

carl sends POST requests to the given DNS-over-HTTPS URL.

To find the DOH server itself, which might be specified using a name, libcarl
will use the default name lookup function. You can bootstrap that by providing
the address for the DOH server with \fICARLOPT_RESOLVE(3)\fP.

Disable DOH use again by setting this option to NULL.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL - there is no default DOH URL. If this option isn't set, libcarl will use
the default name resolver.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_DOH_URL, "https://dns.example.com");
  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.62.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK on success or CARLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient
heap space.

Note that \fIcarl_easy_setopt(3)\fP won't actually parse the given string so
given a bad DOH URL, carl will not detect a problem until it tries to resolve
a name with it.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_VERBOSE "(3), " CARLOPT_RESOLVE "(3), "
