.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_MIMEPOST 3 "22 Aug 2017" "libcarl 7.56.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_MIMEPOST \- set post/send data from mime structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

carl_mime *mime;

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_MIMEPOST, mime);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a mime handle previously obtained from \fIcarl_mime_init(3)\fP.

This setting is supported by the HTTP protocol to post forms and by the
SMTP and IMAP protocols to provide the e-mail data to send/upload.

This option is the preferred way of posting an HTTP form, replacing and
extending the deprecated \fICARLOPT_HTTPPOST(3)\fP option.
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP, SMTP, IMAP.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Since 7.56.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This will return CARLE_OK.
.SH EXAMPLE
Using this option implies the use of several mime structure building
functions: see https://carl.se/libcarl/c/smtp-mime.html for a complete
example.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_mime_init "(3)"
