.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLINFO_EFFECTIVE_METHOD 3 "28 Aug 2015" "libcarl 7.72.0" "carl_easy_getinfo options"
.SH NAME
CARLINFO_EFFECTIVE_METHOD \- get the last used HTTP method
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_getinfo(CARL *handle, CARLINFO_EFFECTIVE_METHOD,
                           char **methodp);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass in a pointer to a char pointer and get the last used effective HTTP
method.

In cases when you've asked libcarl to follow redirects, the method may very
well not be the same method the first request would use.

The \fBmethodp\fP pointer will be NULL or pointing to private memory you MUST
NOT free - it gets freed when you call \fIcarl_easy_cleanup(3)\fP on the
corresponding CARL handle.
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP(S)
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  CARLcode res;
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_POSTFIELDS, "data");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION, 1L);
  res = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  if(res == CARLE_OK) {
    char *method = NULL;
    carl_easy_getinfo(carl, CARLINFO_EFFECTIVE_METHOD, &method);
    if(method)
      printf("Redirected to method: %s\\n", method);
  }
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.72.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_easy_getinfo "(3), " carl_easy_setopt "(3), "
