.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2019, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_SEEKDATA 3 "16 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_SEEKDATA \- custom pointer passed to the seek callback
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_SEEKDATA, void *pointer);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Data \fIpointer\fP to pass to the seek callback function. If you use the
\fICARLOPT_SEEKFUNCTION(3)\fP option, this is the pointer you'll get as
input.
.SH DEFAULT
If you don't set this, NULL is passed to the callback.
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP, FTP, SFTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
static int seek_cb(void *userp, carl_off_t offset, int origin)
{
  struct data *d = (struct data *)userp;
  lseek(d->our_fd, offset, origin);
  return CARL_SEEKFUNC_OK;
}

{
  struct data seek_data;
  carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_SEEKFUNCTION, seek_cb);
  carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_SEEKDATA, &seek_data);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.18.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_STDERR "(3), " CARLOPT_DEBUGFUNCTION "(3), "
