.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_COPYPOSTFIELDS 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_COPYPOSTFIELDS \- have libcarl copy data to POST
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_COPYPOSTFIELDS, char *data);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a char * as parameter, which should be the full \fIdata\fP to post in a
HTTP POST operation. It behaves as the \fICARLOPT_POSTFIELDS(3)\fP option, but
the original data is instead copied by the library, allowing the application
to overwrite the original data after setting this option.

Because data are copied, care must be taken when using this option in
conjunction with \fICARLOPT_POSTFIELDSIZE(3)\fP or
\fICARLOPT_POSTFIELDSIZE_LARGE(3)\fP: If the size has not been set prior to
\fICARLOPT_COPYPOSTFIELDS(3)\fP, the data is assumed to be a null-terminated
string; else the stored size informs the library about the byte count to
copy. In any case, the size must not be changed after
\fICARLOPT_COPYPOSTFIELDS(3)\fP, unless another \fICARLOPT_POSTFIELDS(3)\fP or
\fICARLOPT_COPYPOSTFIELDS(3)\fP option is issued.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP(S)
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  char local_buffer[1024]="data to send";
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* size of the data to copy from the buffer and send in the request */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_POSTFIELDSIZE, 12L);

  /* send data from the local stack */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_COPYPOSTFIELDS, local_buffer);

  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.17.1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CARLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_POSTFIELDS "(3), " CARLOPT_POSTFIELDSIZE "(3), "
