.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_HTTPPOST 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_HTTPPOST \- specify the multipart formpost content
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_HTTPPOST,
                          struct carl_httppost *formpost);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Tells libcarl you want a multipart/formdata HTTP POST to be made and you
instruct what data to pass on to the server in the \fIformpost\fP argument.
Pass a pointer to a linked list of carl_httppost structs as parameter.  The
easiest way to create such a list, is to use \fIcarl_formadd(3)\fP as
documented. The data in this list must remain intact as long as the carl
transfer is alive and is using it.

Using POST with HTTP 1.1 implies the use of a "Expect: 100-continue" header.
You can disable this header with \fICARLOPT_HTTPHEADER(3)\fP.

When setting \fICARLOPT_HTTPPOST(3)\fP, it will automatically set
\fICARLOPT_NOBODY(3)\fP to 0.

This option is deprecated! Do not use it. Use \fICARLOPT_MIMEPOST(3)\fP
instead after having prepared mime data.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
/* Fill in the file upload field. This makes libcarl load data from
   the given file name when carl_easy_perform() is called. */
carl_formadd(&formpost,
             &lastptr,
             CARLFORM_COPYNAME, "sendfile",
             CARLFORM_FILE, "postit2.c",
             CARLFORM_END);

/* Fill in the filename field */
carl_formadd(&formpost,
             &lastptr,
             CARLFORM_COPYNAME, "filename",
             CARLFORM_COPYCONTENTS, "postit2.c",
             CARLFORM_END);

/* Fill in the submit field too, even if this is rarely needed */
carl_formadd(&formpost,
             &lastptr,
             CARLFORM_COPYNAME, "submit",
             CARLFORM_COPYCONTENTS, "send",
             CARLFORM_END);
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
As long as HTTP is enabled. Deprecated in 7.56.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if HTTP is enabled, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_POSTFIELDS "(3), " CARLOPT_POST "(3), " CARLOPT_MIMEPOST "(3),"
.BR carl_formadd "(3), " carl_formfree "(3), " carl_mime_init "(3)"
