.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_SEEKFUNCTION 3 "16 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_SEEKFUNCTION \- user callback for seeking in input stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

/* These are the return codes for the seek callbacks */
#define CARL_SEEKFUNC_OK       0
#define CARL_SEEKFUNC_FAIL     1 /* fail the entire transfer */
#define CARL_SEEKFUNC_CANTSEEK 2 /* tell libcarl seeking can't be done, so
                                    libcarl might try other means instead */

int seek_callback(void *userp, carl_off_t offset, int origin);

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_SEEKFUNCTION, seek_callback);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to your callback function, which should match the prototype
shown above.

This function gets called by libcarl to seek to a certain position in the
input stream and can be used to fast forward a file in a resumed upload
(instead of reading all uploaded bytes with the normal read
function/callback). It is also called to rewind a stream when data has already
been sent to the server and needs to be sent again. This may happen when doing
an HTTP PUT or POST with a multi-pass authentication method, or when an
existing HTTP connection is reused too late and the server closes the
connection. The function shall work like fseek(3) or lseek(3) and it gets
SEEK_SET, SEEK_CUR or SEEK_END as argument for \fIorigin\fP, although libcarl
currently only passes SEEK_SET.

\fIuserp\fP is the pointer you set with \fICARLOPT_SEEKDATA(3)\fP.

The callback function must return \fICARL_SEEKFUNC_OK\fP on success,
\fICARL_SEEKFUNC_FAIL\fP to cause the upload operation to fail or
\fICARL_SEEKFUNC_CANTSEEK\fP to indicate that while the seek failed, libcarl
is free to work around the problem if possible. The latter can sometimes be
done by instead reading from the input or similar.

If you forward the input arguments directly to fseek(3) or lseek(3), note that
the data type for \fIoffset\fP is not the same as defined for carl_off_t on
many systems!
.SH DEFAULT
By default, this is NULL and unused.
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP, FTP, SFTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
static int seek_cb(void *userp, carl_off_t offset, int origin)
{
  struct data *d = (struct data *)userp;
  lseek(our_fd, offset, origin);
  return CARL_SEEKFUNC_OK;
}

{
  struct data seek_data;
  carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_SEEKFUNCTION, seek_cb);
  carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_SEEKDATA, &seek_data);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.18.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_SEEKDATA "(3), " CARLOPT_IOCTLFUNCTION "(3), "
