.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2019, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_CONNECT_ONLY 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_CONNECT_ONLY \- stop when connected to target server
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_CONNECT_ONLY, long only);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long. If the parameter equals 1, it tells the library to perform all
the required proxy authentication and connection setup, but no data transfer,
and then return.

The option can be used to simply test a connection to a server, but is more
useful when used with the \fICARLINFO_ACTIVESOCKET(3)\fP option to
\fIcarl_easy_getinfo(3)\fP as the library can set up the connection and then
the application can obtain the most recently used socket for special data
transfers.

Transfers marked connect only will not reuse any existing connections and
connections marked connect only will not be allowed to get reused.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP, SMTP, POP3 and IMAP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  CARLcode ret;
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_CONNECT_ONLY, 1L);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  if(ret == CARLE_OK) {
    /* only connected! */
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.15.2
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_VERBOSE "(3), " CARLOPT_HTTPPROXYTUNNEL  "(3), "
.BR carl_easy_recv "(3), " carl_easy_send "(3) "
