.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_PROXYUSERPWD 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_PROXYUSERPWD \- user name and password to use for proxy authentication
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_PROXYUSERPWD, char *userpwd);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a char * as parameter, which should be [user name]:[password] to use for
the connection to the HTTP proxy. Both the name and the password will be URL
decoded before use, so to include for example a colon in the user name you
should encode it as %3A. (This is different to how \fICARLOPT_USERPWD(3)\fP is
used - beware.)

Use \fICARLOPT_PROXYAUTH(3)\fP to specify the authentication method.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
This is NULL by default.
.SH PROTOCOLS
Used with all protocols that can use a proxy
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/foo.bin");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PROXY, "http://localhost:8080");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PROXYUSERPWD, "clark%20kent:superman");
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if proxies are supported, CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CARLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_PROXY "(3), " CARLOPT_PROXYTYPE "(3), "
