.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_USERNAME 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_USERNAME \- user name to use in authentication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_USERNAME,
                          char *username);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a char * as parameter, which should be pointing to the null-terminated
user name to use for the transfer.

\fICARLOPT_USERNAME(3)\fP sets the user name to be used in protocol
authentication. You should not use this option together with the (older)
\fICARLOPT_USERPWD(3)\fP option.

When using Kerberos V5 authentication with a Windows based server, you should
include the domain name in order for the server to successfully obtain a
Kerberos Ticket. If you don't then the initial part of the authentication
handshake may fail.

When using NTLM, the user name can be specified simply as the user name
without the domain name should the server be part of a single domain and
forest.

To include the domain name use either Down-Level Logon Name or UPN (User
Principal Name) formats. For example, EXAMPLE\\user and user@example.com
respectively.

Some HTTP servers (on Windows) support inclusion of the domain for Basic
authentication as well.

To specify the password and login options, along with the user name, use the
\fICARLOPT_PASSWORD(3)\fP and \fICARLOPT_LOGIN_OPTIONS(3)\fP options.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
blank
.SH PROTOCOLS
Most
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/foo.bin");

  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_USERNAME, "clark");

  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);

  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.19.1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CARLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_USERPWD "(3), " CARLOPT_PASSWORD "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_HTTPAUTH "(3), " CARLOPT_PROXYAUTH "(3)"
