.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_READDATA 3 "16 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_READDATA \- custom pointer passed to the read callback
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_READDATA, void *pointer);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Data \fIpointer\fP to pass to the file read function. If you use the
\fICARLOPT_READFUNCTION(3)\fP option, this is the pointer you'll get as
input in the 4th argument to the callback.

If you don't specify a read callback but instead rely on the default internal
read function, this data must be a valid readable FILE * (cast to 'void *').

If you're using libcarl as a win32 DLL, you \fBMUST\fP use a
\fICARLOPT_READFUNCTION(3)\fP if you set this option or you will experience
crashes.
.SH DEFAULT
By default, this is a FILE * to stdin.
.SH PROTOCOLS
This is used for all protocols when sending data.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
struct MyData this;
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* pass pointer that gets passed in to the
     CARLOPT_READFUNCTION callback */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_READDATA, &this);

  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
This option was once known by the older name CARLOPT_INFILE, the name
\fICARLOPT_READDATA(3)\fP was introduced in 7.9.7.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This will return CARLE_OK.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_READFUNCTION "(3), " CARLOPT_WRITEDATA "(3), "
