.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2019, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_LOCALPORT 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_LOCALPORT \- set local port number to use for socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_LOCALPORT, long port);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long. This sets the local port number of the socket used for the
connection. This can be used in combination with \fICARLOPT_INTERFACE(3)\fP
and you are recommended to use \fICARLOPT_LOCALPORTRANGE(3)\fP as well when
this option is set. Valid port numbers are 1 - 65535.
.SH DEFAULT
0, disabled - use whatever the system thinks is fine
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/foo.bin");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_LOCALPORT, 49152L);
  /* and try 20 more ports following that */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_LOCALPORTRANGE, 20L);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.15.2
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_LOCALPORTRANGE "(3), " CARLOPT_INTERFACE "(3), "
