.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_LOGIN_OPTIONS 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_LOGIN_OPTIONS \- set login options
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_LOGIN_OPTIONS, char *options);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a char * as parameter, which should be pointing to the null-terminated
\fIoptions\fP string to use for the transfer.

For more information about the login options please see RFC2384, RFC5092 and
IETF draft draft-earhart-url-smtp-00.txt

\fICARLOPT_LOGIN_OPTIONS(3)\fP can be used to set protocol specific login
options, such as the preferred authentication mechanism via "AUTH=NTLM" or
"AUTH=*", and should be used in conjunction with the \fICARLOPT_USERNAME(3)\fP
option.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
Only IMAP, POP3 and SMTP support login options.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "smtp://example.com/");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_LOGIN_OPTIONS, "AUTH=*");
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.34.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CARLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_USERNAME "(3), " CARLOPT_PASSWORD "(3), "
