.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_COOKIEJAR 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_COOKIEJAR \- file name to store cookies to
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_COOKIEJAR, char *filename);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a \fIfilename\fP as char *, null-terminated. This will make libcarl write
all internally known cookies to the specified file when
\fIcarl_easy_cleanup(3)\fP is called. If no cookies are known, no file will be
created. Specify "-" as filename to instead have the cookies written to
stdout. Using this option also enables cookies for this session, so if you for
example follow a location it will make matching cookies get sent accordingly.

Note that libcarl doesn't read any cookies from the cookie jar. If you want to
read cookies from a file, use \fICARLOPT_COOKIEFILE(3)\fP.

If the cookie jar file can't be created or written to (when the
\fIcarl_easy_cleanup(3)\fP is called), libcarl will not and cannot report an
error for this. Using \fICARLOPT_VERBOSE(3)\fP or
\fICARLOPT_DEBUGFUNCTION(3)\fP will get a warning to display, but that is the
only visible feedback you get about this possibly lethal situation.

Since 7.43.0 cookies that were imported in the Set-Cookie format without a
domain name are not exported by this option.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/foo.bin");

  /* export cookies to this file when closing the handle */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_COOKIEJAR, "/tmp/cookies.txt");

  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);

  /* close the handle, write the cookies! */
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Along with HTTP
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if HTTP is supported, CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CARLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_COOKIEFILE "(3), " CARLOPT_COOKIE "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_COOKIELIST "(3), "
