.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_DIRLISTONLY 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_DIRLISTONLY \- ask for names only in a directory listing
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_DIRLISTONLY, long listonly);
.SH DESCRIPTION
For FTP and SFTP based URLs a parameter set to 1 tells the library to list the
names of files in a directory, rather than performing a full directory listing
that would normally include file sizes, dates etc.

For POP3 a parameter of 1 tells the library to list the email message or
messages on the POP3 server. This can be used to change the default behavior
of libcarl, when combined with a URL that contains a message ID, to perform a
"scan listing" which can then be used to determine the size of an email.

Note: For FTP this causes a NLST command to be sent to the FTP server.  Beware
that some FTP servers list only files in their response to NLST; they might not
include subdirectories and symbolic links.

Setting this option to 1 also implies a directory listing even if the URL
doesn't end with a slash, which otherwise is necessary.

Do NOT use this option if you also use \fICARLOPT_WILDCARDMATCH(3)\fP as it
will effectively break that feature then.
.SH DEFAULT
0, disabled
.SH PROTOCOLS
FTP, SFTP and POP3
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "ftp://example.com/dir/");

  /* list only */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_DIRLISTONLY, 1L);

  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);

  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
This option was known as CARLOPT_FTPLISTONLY up to 7.16.4. POP3 is supported
since 7.21.5.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_CUSTOMREQUEST "(3), "
