.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_SSH_HOST_PUBLIC_KEY_MD5 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_SSH_HOST_PUBLIC_KEY_MD5 \- checksum of SSH server public key
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_SSH_HOST_PUBLIC_KEY_MD5,
                          char *md5);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a char * pointing to a string containing 32 hexadecimal digits. The
string should be the 128 bit MD5 checksum of the remote host's public key, and
libcarl will reject the connection to the host unless the md5sums match.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
SCP and SFTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "sftp://example.com/file");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_SSH_HOST_PUBLIC_KEY_MD5,
                   "afe17cd62a0f3b61f1ab9cb22ba269a7");
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.17.1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CARLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_SSH_PUBLIC_KEYFILE "(3), " CARLOPT_SSH_AUTH_TYPES "(3), "
