.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_SSL_FALSESTART 3 "14 Feb 2015" "libcarl 7.41.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_SSL_FALSESTART \- enable TLS false start
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_SSL_FALSESTART, long enable);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long as parameter set to 1L to enable or 0 to disable.

This option determines whether libcarl should use false start during the TLS
handshake. False start is a mode where a TLS client will start sending
application data before verifying the server's Finished message, thus saving a
round trip when performing a full handshake.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
All TLS based protocols: HTTPS, FTPS, IMAPS, POP3S, SMTPS etc.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_SSL_FALSESTART, 1L);
  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.42.0. This option is currently only supported by the NSS and
Secure Transport (on iOS 7.0 or later, or OS X 10.9 or later) TLS backends.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if false start is supported by the SSL backend, otherwise
returns CARLE_NOT_BUILT_IN.
