.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2019, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_HTTP09_ALLOWED 3 "17 Dec 2018" "libcarl 7.64.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_HTTP09 \- allow HTTP/0.9 response
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_HTTP09_ALLOWED, long allowed);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass the long argument \fIallowed\fP set to 1L to allow HTTP/0.9 responses.

A HTTP/0.9 response is a server response entirely without headers and only a
body. You can connect to lots of random TCP services and still get a response
that carl might consider to be HTTP/0.9!
.SH DEFAULT
carl allowed HTTP/0.9 responses by default before 7.66.0

Since 7.66.0, libcarl requires this option set to 1L to allow HTTP/0.9
responses.
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  CARLcode ret;
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_HTTP09_ALLOWED, 1L);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Option added in 7.64.0, present along with HTTP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if HTTP is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_SSLVERSION "(3), " CARLOPT_HTTP_VERSION "(3), "
