.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_EXPECT_100_TIMEOUT_MS 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_EXPECT_100_TIMEOUT_MS \- timeout for Expect: 100-continue response
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_EXPECT_100_TIMEOUT_MS,
                          long milliseconds);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long to tell libcarl the number of \fImilliseconds\fP to wait for a
server response with the HTTP status 100 (Continue), 417 (Expectation Failed)
or similar after sending an HTTP request containing an Expect: 100-continue
header. If this times out before a response is received, the request body is
sent anyway.
.SH DEFAULT
1000 milliseconds
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* wait 3 seconds for 100-continue */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_EXPECT_100_TIMEOUT_MS, 3000L);

  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.36.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_POST "(3), " CARLOPT_HTTPPOST "(3), "
