.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_HSTSREADFUNCTION 3 "14 Sep 2020" "libcarl 7.74.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_HSTSREADFUNCTION \- read callback for HSTS hosts
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLSTScode hstsread(CARL *easy, struct carl_hstsentry *sts, void *userp);

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_HSTSREADFUNCTION, hstsread);
.SH EXPERIMENTAL
Warning: this feature is early code and is marked as experimental. It can only
be enabled by explicitly telling configure with \fB--enable-hsts\fP. You are
advised to not ship this in production before the experimental label is
removed.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to your callback function, as the prototype shows above.

This callback function gets called by libcarl repeatedly when it populates the
in-memory HSTS cache.

Set the \fIuserp\fP argument with the \fICARLOPT_HSTSREADDATA(3)\fP option or
it will be NULL.

When this callback is invoked, the \fIsts\fP pointer points to a populated
struct: Copy the host name to 'name' (no longer than 'namelen' bytes). Make it
null-terminated. Set 'includeSubDomains' to TRUE or FALSE. Set 'expire' to a
date stamp or a zero length string for *forever* (wrong date stamp format
might cause the name to not get accepted)

The callback should return \fICARLSTS_OK\fP if it returns a name and is
prepared to be called again (for another host) or \fICARLSTS_DONE\fP if it has
no entry to return. It can also return \fICARLSTS_FAIL\fP to signal error.

This option doesn't enable HSTS, you need to use \fICARLOPT_HSTS_CTRL(3)\fP to
do that.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL - no callback.
.SH PROTOCOLS
This feature is only used for HTTP(S) transfer.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
{
  /* set HSTS read callback */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_HSTSREADFUNCTION, hstsread);

  /* pass in suitable argument to the callback */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_HSTSREADDATA, &hstspreload[0]);

  result = carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.74.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
This will return CARLE_OK.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_HSTSREADDATA "(3), " CARLOPT_HSTSWRITEFUNCTION "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_HSTS "(3), " CARLOPT_HSTS_CTRL "(3), "

