.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_FTP_RESPONSE_TIMEOUT 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_FTP_RESPONSE_TIMEOUT \- time allowed to wait for FTP response
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_FTP_RESPONSE_TIMEOUT, long timeout);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long.  Causes libcarl to set a \fItimeout\fP period (in seconds) on the
amount of time that the server is allowed to take in order to send a response
message for a command before the session is considered dead.  While libcarl is
waiting for a response, this value overrides \fICARLOPT_TIMEOUT(3)\fP. It is
recommended that if used in conjunction with \fICARLOPT_TIMEOUT(3)\fP, you set
\fICARLOPT_FTP_RESPONSE_TIMEOUT(3)\fP to a value smaller than
\fICARLOPT_TIMEOUT(3)\fP.
.SH DEFAULT
None
.SH PROTOCOLS
FTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "ftp://example.com/slow.txt");
  /* wait no more than 23 seconds */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_FTP_RESPONSE_TIMEOUT, 23L);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);

  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.10.8
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if FTP is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not. Returns
CARLE_BAD_FUNCTION_ARGUMENT if set to a negative value or a value that when
converted to milliseconds is too large.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_TIMEOUT "(3), " CARLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_LOW_SPEED_LIMIT "(3), "
