.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_DNS_LOCAL_IP6 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_DNS_LOCAL_IP6 \- IPv6 address to bind DNS resolves to
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_DNS_LOCAL_IP6, char *address);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Set the local IPv6 \fIaddress\fP that the resolver should bind to. The
argument should be of type char * and contain a single IPv6 address as a
string.  Set this option to NULL to use the default setting (don't bind to a
specific IP address).

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/foo.bin");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_DNS_LOCAL_IP6, "fe80::a9ff:fe46:b619");
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
This option requires that libcarl was built with a resolver backend that
supports this operation. The c-ares backend is the only such one.

Added in 7.33.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not,
CARLE_NOT_BUILT_IN if support was disabled at compile-time, or
CARLE_BAD_FUNCTION_ARGUMENT when given a bad address.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_DNS_INTERFACE "(3), " CARLOPT_DNS_LOCAL_IP4 "(3), "
