.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_FTP_FILEMETHOD 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_FTP_FILEMETHOD \- select directory traversing method for FTP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_FTP_FILEMETHOD,
                          long method);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long telling libcarl which \fImethod\fP to use to reach a file on a
FTP(S) server.

This option exists because some server implementations aren't compliant to
what the standards say should work.

The argument should be one of the following alternatives:
.IP CARLFTPMETHOD_MULTICWD
libcarl does a single CWD operation for each path part in the given URL. For
deep hierarchies this means many commands. This is how RFC1738 says it should
be done. This is the default but the slowest behavior.
.IP CARLFTPMETHOD_NOCWD
libcarl does no CWD at all. libcarl will do SIZE, RETR, STOR etc and give a
full path to the server for all these commands. This is the fastest behavior.
.IP CARLFTPMETHOD_SINGLECWD
libcarl does one CWD with the full target directory and then operates on the
file \&"normally" (like in the multicwd case). This is somewhat more standards
compliant than 'nocwd' but without the full penalty of 'multicwd'.
.SH DEFAULT
CARLFTPMETHOD_MULTICWD
.SH PROTOCOLS
FTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "ftp://example.com/1/2/3/4/new.txt");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_FTP_FILEMETHOD,
                         CARLFTPMETHOD_SINGLECWD);

  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);

  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.15.1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_DIRLISTONLY "(3), " CARLOPT_FTP_SKIP_PASV_IP "(3), "
