.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_NOPROGRESS 3 "16 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_NOPROGRESS \- switch off the progress meter
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_NOPROGRESS, long onoff);
.SH DESCRIPTION
If \fIonoff\fP is to 1, it tells the library to shut off the progress meter
completely for requests done with this \fIhandle\fP. It will also prevent the
\fICARLOPT_XFERINFOFUNCTION(3)\fP or \fICARLOPT_PROGRESSFUNCTION(3)\fP from
getting called.
.SH DEFAULT
1, meaning it normally runs without a progress meter.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* enable progress meter */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_NOPROGRESS, 0L);

  /* Perform the request */
  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_XFERINFOFUNCTION "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_PROGRESSFUNCTION "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_VERBOSE "(3), "
