.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_FORBID_REUSE 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_FORBID_REUSE \- make connection get closed at once after use
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_FORBID_REUSE, long close);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long. Set \fIclose\fP to 1 to make libcarl explicitly close the
connection when done with the transfer. Normally, libcarl keeps all
connections alive when done with one transfer in case a succeeding one follows
that can re-use them.  This option should be used with caution and only if you
understand what it does as it can seriously impact performance.

Set to 0 to have libcarl keep the connection open for possible later re-use
(default behavior).
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
Most
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
{
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_FORBID_REUSE, 1L);
  carl_easy_perform(carl);

  /* this second transfer may not reuse the same connection */
  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_FRESH_CONNECT "(3), " CARLOPT_MAXCONNECTS "(3), "
