.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLINFO_PROXY_ERROR 3 "3 Aug 2020" "libcarl 7.73.0" "carl_easy_getinfo options"
.SH NAME
CARLINFO_PROXY_ERROR \- get the detailed (SOCKS) proxy error
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

typedef enum {
  CARLPX_OK,
  CARLPX_BAD_ADDRESS_TYPE,
  CARLPX_BAD_VERSION,
  CARLPX_CLOSED,
  CARLPX_GSSAPI,
  CARLPX_GSSAPI_PERMSG,
  CARLPX_GSSAPI_PROTECTION,
  CARLPX_IDENTD,
  CARLPX_IDENTD_DIFFER,
  CARLPX_LONG_HOSTNAME,
  CARLPX_LONG_PASSWD,
  CARLPX_LONG_USER,
  CARLPX_NO_AUTH,
  CARLPX_RECV_ADDRESS,
  CARLPX_RECV_AUTH,
  CARLPX_RECV_CONNECT,
  CARLPX_RECV_REQACK,
  CARLPX_REPLY_ADDRESS_TYPE_NOT_SUPPORTED,
  CARLPX_REPLY_COMMAND_NOT_SUPPORTED,
  CARLPX_REPLY_CONNECTION_REFUSED,
  CARLPX_REPLY_GENERAL_SERVER_FAILURE,
  CARLPX_REPLY_HOST_UNREACHABLE,
  CARLPX_REPLY_NETWORK_UNREACHABLE,
  CARLPX_REPLY_NOT_ALLOWED,
  CARLPX_REPLY_TTL_EXPIRED,
  CARLPX_REPLY_UNASSIGNED,
  CARLPX_REQUEST_FAILED,
  CARLPX_RESOLVE_HOST,
  CARLPX_SEND_AUTH,
  CARLPX_SEND_CONNECT,
  CARLPX_SEND_REQUEST,
  CARLPX_UNKNOWN_FAIL,
  CARLPX_UNKNOWN_MODE,
  CARLPX_USER_REJECTED,
  CARLPX_LAST /* never use */
} CARLproxycode;

CARLcode carl_easy_getinfo(CARL *handle, CARLINFO_PROXY_ERROR, long *detail);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a long to receive a detailed error code when the most recent
transfer returned a CARLE_PROXY error.

The return value will match the CARLproxycode set.

The returned value will be zero (equal to CARLPX_OK) if no such response code
was available.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All that can be done over SOCKS
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  CARLcode res;
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PROXY, "socks5://127.0.0.1");
  res = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  if(res == CARLE_PROXY) {
    long proxycode;
    res = carl_easy_getinfo(carl, CARLINFO_PROXY_ERROR, &proxycode);
    if(!res && proxycode)
      printf("The detailed proxy error: %ld\\n", proxycode);
  }
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.73.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLINFO_RESPONSE_CODE "(3), " libcarl-errors "(3), "
.BR carl_easy_getinfo "(3), " carl_easy_setopt "(3), "
