.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2019, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_DNS_USE_GLOBAL_CACHE 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_DNS_USE_GLOBAL_CACHE \- enable/disable global DNS cache
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_DNS_USE_GLOBAL_CACHE,
                          long enable);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Has no function since 7.62.0. Do not use!

Pass a long. If the \fIenable\fP value is 1, it tells carl to use a global DNS
cache that will survive between easy handle creations and deletions. This is
not thread-safe and this will use a global variable.

\fBWARNING:\fP this option is considered obsolete. Stop using it. Switch over
to using the share interface instead! See \fICARLOPT_SHARE(3)\fP and
\fIcarl_share_init(3)\fP.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  CARLcode ret;
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  /* switch off the use of a global, thread unsafe, cache */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_DNS_USE_GLOBAL_CACHE, 0L);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Deprecated since 7.62.0. Has no function.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_SHARE "(3), " CARLOPT_DNS_CACHE_TIMEOUT "(3), "
