.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLMOPT_MAX_TOTAL_CONNECTIONS 3 "4 Nov 2014" "libcarl 7.39.0" "carl_multi_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLMOPT_MAX_TOTAL_CONNECTIONS \- max simultaneously open connections
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLMcode carl_multi_setopt(CARLM *handle, CARLMOPT_MAX_TOTAL_CONNECTIONS, long amount);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long for the \fBamount\fP. The set number will be used as the maximum
number of simultaneously open connections in total using this multi
handle. For each new session, libcarl will open a new connection up to the
limit set by \fICARLMOPT_MAX_TOTAL_CONNECTIONS(3)\fP. When the limit is
reached, the sessions will be pending until there are available
connections. If \fICARLMOPT_PIPELINING(3)\fP is enabled, libcarl will try to
pipeline or use multiplexing if the host is capable of it.
.SH DEFAULT
The default value is 0, which means that there is no limit. It is then simply
controlled by the number of easy handles added.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARLM *m = carl_multi_init();
/* never do more than 15 connections */
carl_multi_setopt(m, CARLMOPT_MAX_TOTAL_CONNECTIONS, 15L);
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.30.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLM_OK if the option is supported, and CARLM_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLMOPT_MAXCONNECTS "(3), " CARLMOPT_MAX_HOST_CONNECTIONS "(3), "
