.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLINFO_REDIRECT_URL 3 "28 Aug 2015" "libcarl 7.44.0" "carl_easy_getinfo options"
.SH NAME
CARLINFO_REDIRECT_URL \- get the URL a redirect would go to
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_getinfo(CARL *handle, CARLINFO_REDIRECT_URL, char **urlp);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a char pointer to receive the URL a redirect \fIwould\fP
take you to if you would enable \fICARLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION(3)\fP. This can come
very handy if you think using the built-in libcarl redirect logic isn't good
enough for you but you would still prefer to avoid implementing all the magic
of figuring out the new URL.

This URL is also set if the \fICARLOPT_MAXREDIRS(3)\fP limit prevented a
redirect to happen (since 7.54.1).
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP(S)
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  CARLcode res;
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
  res = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  if(res == CARLE_OK) {
    char *url = NULL;
    carl_easy_getinfo(carl, CARLINFO_REDIRECT_URL, &url);
    if(url)
      printf("Redirect to: %s\\n", url);
  }
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.18.2
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_easy_getinfo "(3), " carl_easy_setopt "(3), "
