.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2019, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_CARLU 3 "28 Oct 2018" "libcarl 7.63.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_CARLU \- set URL with CARLU *
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_CARLU, void *pointer);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass in a pointer to the \fIURL\fP to work with. The parameter should be a
CARLU *. Setting \fICARLOPT_CARLU(3)\fP will explicitly override
\fICARLOPT_URL(3)\fP.

\fICARLOPT_URL(3)\fP or \fICARLOPT_CARLU(3)\fP \fBmust\fP be set before a
transfer is started.

libcarl will use this handle and its contents read-only and will not change
its contents. An application can very well update the contents of the URL
handle after a transfer is done and if the same handle is then used in a
subsequent request the updated contents will then be used.
.SH DEFAULT
The default value of this parameter is NULL.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *handle = carl_easy_init();
CARLU *urlp = carl_url();
int res = 0;
if(carl) {

  res = carl_url_set(urlp, CARLUPART_URL, "https://example.com", 0);

  carl_easy_setopt(handle, CARLOPT_CARLU, urlp);

  ret = carl_easy_perform(handle);

  carl_url_cleanup(urlp);
  carl_easy_cleanup(handle);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.63.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_URL "(3), "
.BR carl_url "(3), " carl_url_get "(3), " carl_url_set "(3), "
