.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2014, 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_FTP_ALTERNATIVE_TO_USER 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_FTP_ALTERNATIVE_TO_USER \- command to use instead of USER with FTP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_FTP_ALTERNATIVE_TO_USER,
                          char *cmd);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a char * as parameter, pointing to a string which will be used to
authenticate if the usual FTP "USER user" and "PASS password" negotiation
fails. This is currently only known to be required when connecting to
Tumbleweed's Secure Transport FTPS server using client certificates for
authentication.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
FTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "ftp://example.com/foo.bin");

  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_FTP_ALTERNATIVE_TO_USER, "two users");

  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);

  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.15.5
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CARLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_FTP_SKIP_PASV_IP "(3), " CARLOPT_FTP_RESPONSE_TIMEOUT "(3), "
