.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_AWS_SIGV4 3 "03 Jun 2020" "libcarl 7.72.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_AWS_SIGV4 \- V4 signature
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_AWS_SIGV4,
                          char *providers_infos);
.SH DESCRIPTION
provides AWS V4 signature authentication on HTTPS header

The provider argument is a string that is merged to some authentication
parameters use by the algorithm.
It's used by "Algorithm", "date", "request type", "signed headers" arguments,

NOTE: This call set CARLOPT_HTTPAUTH to CARLAUTH_AWS_SIGV4.
Calling CARLOPT_HTTPAUTH with CARLAUTH_AWS_SIGV4 is the same as calling
this with "aws:amz" in paramater.

Example with "Test:Try", when carl will do the algorithm, it will Generate:
"TEST-HMAC-SHA256" for "Algorithm"
"x-try-date" and "X-Try-Date" for "date"
"test4_request" for "request type"
"SignedHeaders=content-type;host;x-try-date" for "signed headers"

If you use just "test", instead of "test:try",
test will be use for every strings generated

.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();

struct carl_slist *list = NULL;

if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL,
  "https://api_type.region.example.com/uri");

  carl_easy_setopt(c, CARLOPT_AWS_SIGV4, "xxx:yyy");
  carl_easy_setopt(c, CARLOPT_USERPWD, "MY_ACCESS_KEY:MY_SECRET_KEY");
  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi

.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.75.0

.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.

.SH NOTES
this option overrides the other auth types you might have set in CARL_HTTPAUTH which should be highlighted as this makes this auth method special. It could probably also be mentioned that this method can't be combined with other auth types.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_HEADEROPT "(3), " CARLOPT_HTTPHEADER "(3), "
