.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_INFILESIZE 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_INFILESIZE \- set size of the input file to send off
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_INFILESIZE, long filesize);
.SH DESCRIPTION
When uploading a file to a remote site, \fIfilesize\fP should be used to tell
libcarl what the expected size of the input file is. This value must be passed
as a long. See also \fICARLOPT_INFILESIZE_LARGE(3)\fP for sending files larger
than 2GB.

For uploading using SCP, this option or \fICARLOPT_INFILESIZE_LARGE(3)\fP is
mandatory.

To unset this value again, set it to -1.

When sending emails using SMTP, this command can be used to specify the
optional SIZE parameter for the MAIL FROM command.

This option does not limit how much data libcarl will actually send, as that
is controlled entirely by what the read callback returns, but telling one
value and sending a different amount may lead to errors.
.SH DEFAULT
Unset
.SH PROTOCOLS
Many
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  long uploadsize = FILE_SIZE;

  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "ftp://example.com/destination.tar.gz");

  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_UPLOAD, 1L);

  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_INFILESIZE, uploadsize);

  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
SMTP support added in 7.23.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_INFILESIZE_LARGE "(3), " CARLOPT_UPLOAD "(3), "
