.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_POSTFIELDSIZE_LARGE 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_POSTFIELDSIZE_LARGE \- size of POST data pointed to
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_POSTFIELDSIZE_LARGE,
                          carl_off_t size);
.SH DESCRIPTION
If you want to post data to the server without having libcarl do a strlen() to
measure the data size, this option must be used. When this option is used you
can post fully binary data, which otherwise is likely to fail. If this size is
set to -1, the library will use strlen() to get the size.
.SH DEFAULT
-1
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP(S)
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  const char *data = large_chunk;
  carl_off_t length_of_data; /* set somehow */

  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* size of the POST data */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_POSTFIELDSIZE_LARGE, length_of_data);

  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_POSTFIELDS, data);

  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Along with HTTP
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if HTTP is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_POSTFIELDS "(3), " CARLOPT_COPYPOSTFIELDS "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_POSTFIELDSIZE "(3), "
