.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_PROXYAUTH 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_PROXYAUTH \- set HTTP proxy authentication methods to try
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_PROXYAUTH, long bitmask);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long as parameter, which is set to a bitmask, to tell libcarl which
HTTP authentication method(s) you want it to use for your proxy
authentication.  If more than one bit is set, libcarl will first query the
site to see what authentication methods it supports and then pick the best one
you allow it to use. For some methods, this will induce an extra network
round-trip. Set the actual name and password with the
\fICARLOPT_PROXYUSERPWD(3)\fP option.

The bitmask can be constructed by or'ing together the bits fully listed and
described in the \fICARLOPT_HTTPAUTH(3)\fP man page.
.SH DEFAULT
CARLAUTH_BASIC
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  CARLcode ret;
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  /* use this proxy */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PROXY, "http://local.example.com:1080");
  /* allow whatever auth the proxy speaks */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PROXYAUTH, CARLAUTH_ANY);
  /* set the proxy credentials */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PROXYUSERPWD, "james:007");
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.10.7
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CARLE_NOT_BUILT_IN if the bitmask specified no supported authentication
methods.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_PROXY "(3), " CARLOPT_PROXYTYPE "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_PROXYUSERPWD "(3), " CARLOPT_PROXYPORT "(3), "
