.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_PUT 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_PUT \- make an HTTP PUT request
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_PUT, long put);
.SH DESCRIPTION
A parameter set to 1 tells the library to use HTTP PUT to transfer data. The
data should be set with \fICARLOPT_READDATA(3)\fP and
\fICARLOPT_INFILESIZE(3)\fP.

This option is \fBdeprecated\fP since version 7.12.1. Use
\fICARLOPT_UPLOAD(3)\fP!
.SH DEFAULT
0, disabled
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH AVAILABILITY
Deprecated since 7.12.1. Do not use.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if HTTP is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_UPLOAD "(3), " CARLOPT_HTTPGET "(3), "
