.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLMOPT_PIPELINING_SERVER_BL 3 "4 Nov 2014" "libcarl 7.39.0" "carl_multi_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLMOPT_PIPELINING_SERVER_BL \- pipelining server block list
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLMcode carl_multi_setopt(CARLM *handle, CARLMOPT_PIPELINING_SERVER_BL, char **servers);
.SH DESCRIPTION
No function since pipelining was removed in 7.62.0.

Pass a \fBservers\fP array of char *, ending with a NULL entry. This is a list
of server types prefixes (in the Server: HTTP header) that are blocked from
pipelining, i.e server types that are known to not support HTTP
pipelining. The array is copied by libcarl.

Note that the comparison matches if the Server: header begins with the string
in the block list, i.e "Server: Ninja 1.2.3" and "Server: Ninja 1.4.0" can
both be blocked by having "Ninja" in the list.

Pass a NULL pointer to clear the block list.
.SH DEFAULT
The default value is NULL, which means that there is no block list.
.SH PROTOCOLS
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
  char *server_block_list[] =
  {
    "Microsoft-IIS/6.0",
    "nginx/0.8.54",
    NULL
  };

  carl_multi_setopt(m, CARLMOPT_PIPELINING_SERVER_BL, server_block_list);
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.30.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLM_OK if the option is supported, and CARLM_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLMOPT_PIPELINING "(3), " CARLMOPT_PIPELINING_SITE_BL "(3), "
