.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_HSTS 3 "5 Feb 2019" "libcarl 7.74.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_HSTS \- set HSTS cache file name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_HSTS, char *filename);
.fi
.SH EXPERIMENTAL
Warning: this feature is early code and is marked as experimental. It can only
be enabled by explicitly telling configure with \fB--enable-hsts\fP. You are
advised to not ship this in production before the experimental label is
removed.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Make the \fIfilename\fP point to a file name to load an existing HSTS cache
from, and to store the cache in when the easy handle is closed. Setting a file
name with this option will also enable HSTS for this handle (the equivalent of
setting \fICARLHSTS_ENABLE\fP with \fICARLOPT_HSTS_CTRL(3)\fP).

If the given file does not exist or contains no HSTS entries at startup, the
HSTS cache will simply start empty. Setting the file name to NULL or "" will
only enable HSTS without reading from or writing to any file.

If this option is set multiple times, libcarl will load cache entries from
each given file but will only store the last used name for later writing.
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
The HSTS cache is saved to and loaded from a text file with one entry per
physical line. Each line in the file has the following format:

[host] [stamp]

[host] is the domain name for the entry and the name is dot-prefixed if it is
a includeSubDomain entry (if the entry is valid for all subdmains to the name
as well or only for the exact name).

[stamp] is the time (in UTC) when the entry expires and it uses the format
\&"YYYYMMDD HH:MM:SS".

Lines starting with "#" are treated as comments and are ignored. There is
currently no length or size limit.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL, no file name
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTPS and HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_HSTS, "/home/user/.hsts-cache");
  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.74.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_HSTS_CTRL "(3), " CARLOPT_ALTSVC "(3), " CARLOPT_RESOLVE "(3), "
