.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLINFO_RETRY_AFTER 3 "6 Aug 2019" "libcarl 7.66.0" "carl_easy_getinfo options"
.SH NAME
CARLINFO_RETRY_AFTER \- returns the Retry-After retry delay
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_getinfo(CARL *handle, CARLINFO_RETRY_AFTER, carl_off_t *retry);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a carl_off_t variable to receive the number of seconds the
HTTP server suggests the client should wait until the next request is
issued. The information from the "Retry-After:" header.

While the HTTP header might contain a fixed date string, the
\fICARLINFO_RETRY_AFTER(3)\fP will always return number of seconds to wait -
or zero if there was no header or the header couldn't be parsed.
.SH DEFAULT
Returns zero delay if there was no header.
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP(S)
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  CARLcode res;
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
  res = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  if(res == CARLE_OK) {
    carl_off_t wait = 0;
    carl_easy_getinfo(carl, CARLINFO_RETRY_AFTER, &wait);
    if(wait)
      printf("Wait for %" CARL_FORMAT_CARL_OFF_T " seconds\\n", wait);
  }
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in carl 7.66.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_STDERR "(3), " CARLOPT_HEADERFUNCTION "(3), "
