.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_MAXREDIRS 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_MAXREDIRS \- maximum number of redirects allowed
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_MAXREDIRS, long amount);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long. The set number will be the redirection limit \fIamount\fP. If
that many redirections have been followed, the next redirect will cause an
error (\fICARLE_TOO_MANY_REDIRECTS\fP). This option only makes sense if the
\fICARLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION(3)\fP is used at the same time.

Setting the limit to 0 will make libcarl refuse any redirect.

Set it to -1 for an infinite number of redirects.
.SH DEFAULT
-1, unlimited
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP(S)
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");

  /* enable redirect following */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION, 1L);

  /* allow three redirects */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_MAXREDIRS, 3L);

  /* Perform the request */
  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Along with HTTP
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if HTTP is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION "(3), "
