.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_CAPATH 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_CAPATH \- specify directory holding CA certificates
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_CAPATH, char *capath);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a char * to a null-terminated string naming a directory holding multiple
CA certificates to verify the peer with. If libcarl is built against OpenSSL,
the certificate directory must be prepared using the openssl c_rehash utility.
This makes sense only when used in combination with the
\fICARLOPT_SSL_VERIFYPEER(3)\fP option.

The \fICARLOPT_CAPATH(3)\fP function apparently does not work in Windows due
to some limitation in openssl.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
All TLS based protocols: HTTPS, FTPS, IMAPS, POP3S, SMTPS etc.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_CAPATH, "/etc/cert-dir");
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
This option is supported by the OpenSSL, GnuTLS and mbedTLS (since 7.56.0)
backends. The NSS backend provides the option only for backward compatibility.
.SH RETURN VALUE
CARLE_OK if supported; or an error such as:

CARLE_NOT_BUILT_IN - Not supported by the SSL backend

CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION

CARLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_CAINFO "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_STDERR "(3), " CARLOPT_DEBUGFUNCTION "(3), "
