.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 2019, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_MAXAGE_CONN 3 "18 Apr 2019" "libcarl 7.65.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_MAXAGE_CONN \- max idle time allowed for reusing a connection
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_MAXAGE_CONN, long maxage);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long as parameter containing \fImaxage\fP - the maximum time in seconds
that you allow an existing connection to have to be considered for reuse for
this request.

The "connection cache" that holds previously used connections. When a new
request is to be done, it will consider any connection that matches for
reuse. The \fICARLOPT_MAXAGE_CONN(3)\fP limit prevents libcarl from trying
very old connections for reuse, since old connections have a high risk of not
working and thus trying them is a performance loss and sometimes service loss
due to the difficulties to figure out the situation. If a connection is found
in the cache that is older than this set \fImaxage\fP, it will instead be
closed.
.SH DEFAULT
Default maxage is 118 seconds.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* only allow 30 seconds idle time */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_MAXAGE_CONN, 30L);

  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in libcarl 7.65.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_TIMEOUT "(3), " CARLOPT_FORBID_REUSE "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_FRESH_CONNECT "(3), "
