.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_PROXY_TRANSFER_MODE 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_PROXY_TRANSFER_MODE \- append FTP transfer mode to URL for proxy
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_PROXY_TRANSFER_MODE, long enabled);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long. If the value is set to 1 (one), it tells libcarl to set the
transfer mode (binary or ASCII) for FTP transfers done via an HTTP proxy, by
appending ;type=a or ;type=i to the URL. Without this setting, or it being set
to 0 (zero, the default), \fICARLOPT_TRANSFERTEXT(3)\fP has no effect when
doing FTP via a proxy. Beware that not all proxies support this feature.
.SH DEFAULT
0, disabled
.SH PROTOCOLS
FTP over proxy
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "ftp://example.com/old-server/file.txt");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PROXY, "http://localhost:80");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PROXY_TRANSFER_MODE, 1L);
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_TRANSFERTEXT, 1L);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.18.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if the
enabled value is not supported.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_PROXY "(3), " CARLOPT_HTTPPROXYTUNNEL "(3), "
