.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLINFO_FTP_ENTRY_PATH 3 "12 Sep 2015" "libcarl 7.44.0" "carl_easy_getinfo options"
.SH NAME
CARLINFO_FTP_ENTRY_PATH \- get entry path in FTP server
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_getinfo(CARL *handle, CARLINFO_FTP_ENTRY_PATH, char **path);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a char pointer to receive a pointer to a string holding the
path of the entry path. That is the initial path libcarl ended up in when
logging on to the remote FTP server. This stores a NULL as pointer if
something is wrong.

The \fBpath\fP pointer will be NULL or pointing to private memory you MUST NOT
free - it gets freed when you call \fIcarl_easy_cleanup(3)\fP on the
corresponding CARL handle.
.SH PROTOCOLS
FTP(S) and SFTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "ftp://example.com");

  res = carl_easy_perform(carl);

  if(!res) {
    /* extract the entry path */
    char *ep = NULL;
    res = carl_easy_getinfo(carl, CARLINFO_FTP_ENTRY_PATH, &ep);
    if(!res && ep) {
      printf("Entry path was: %s\\n", ep);
    }
  }
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.15.4. Works for SFTP since 7.21.4
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_easy_getinfo "(3), " carl_easy_setopt "(3), "
