.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_POSTQUOTE 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_POSTQUOTE \- (S)FTP commands to run after the transfer
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_POSTQUOTE, struct carl_slist *cmds);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a linked list of FTP or SFTP commands to pass to the server
after your FTP transfer request. The commands will only be run if no error
occurred. The linked list should be a fully valid list of struct carl_slist
structs properly filled in as described for \fICARLOPT_QUOTE(3)\fP.

Disable this operation again by setting a NULL to this option.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
SFTP and FTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
struct carl_slist *cmdlist = NULL;
cmdlist = carl_slist_append(cmdlist, "RNFR source-name");
cmdlist = carl_slist_append(cmdlist, "RNTO new-name");

carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "ftp://example.com/foo.bin");

  /* pass in the FTP commands to run after the transfer */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_POSTQUOTE, cmdlist);

  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);

  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
If support for the protocols are built-in.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_QUOTE "(3), " CARLOPT_PREQUOTE "(3), "
