.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_PROXY_TLSAUTH_TYPE 3 "16 Nov 2016" "libcarl 7.52.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_PROXY_TLSAUTH_TYPE \- set proxy TLS authentication methods
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_PROXY_TLSAUTH_TYPE, char *type);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a null-terminated string as parameter. The string should be
the method of the TLS authentication used for the HTTPS connection. Supported
method is "SRP".

.IP SRP
TLS-SRP authentication. Secure Remote Password authentication for TLS is
defined in RFC5054 and provides mutual authentication if both sides have a
shared secret. To use TLS-SRP, you must also set the
\fICARLOPT_PROXY_TLSAUTH_USERNAME(3)\fP and
\fICARLOPT_PROXY_TLSAUTH_PASSWORD(3)\fP options.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
blank
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PROXY, "https://proxy");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PROXY_TLSAUTH_TYPE, "SRP");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PROXY_TLSAUTH_USERNAME, "user");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PROXY_TLSAUTH_PASSWORD, "secret");
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.52.0

You need to build libcarl with GnuTLS or OpenSSL with TLS-SRP support for this
to work.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_PROXY_TLSAUTH_USERNAME "(3), " CARLOPT_PROXY_TLSAUTH_PASSWORD "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_TLSAUTH_USERNAME "(3), " CARLOPT_TLSAUTH_PASSWORD "(3), "
