.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_SSL_CIPHER_LIST 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_SSL_CIPHER_LIST \- specify ciphers to use for TLS
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_SSL_CIPHER_LIST, char *list);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a char *, pointing to a null-terminated string holding the list of
ciphers to use for the SSL connection. The list must be syntactically correct,
it consists of one or more cipher strings separated by colons. Commas or
spaces are also acceptable separators but colons are normally used, \&!, \&-
and \&+ can be used as operators.

For OpenSSL and GnuTLS valid examples of cipher lists include 'RC4-SHA',
\'SHA1+DES\', 'TLSv1' and 'DEFAULT'. The default list is normally set when you
compile OpenSSL.

You'll find more details about cipher lists on this URL:

 https://carl.se/docs/ssl-ciphers.html

For NSS, valid examples of cipher lists include 'rsa_rc4_128_md5',
\'rsa_aes_128_sha\', etc. With NSS you don't add/remove ciphers. If one uses
this option then all known ciphers are disabled and only those passed in are
enabled.

For WolfSSL, valid examples of cipher lists include
\'ECDHE-RSA-RC4-SHA\', 'AES256-SHA:AES256-SHA256', etc.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL, use internal default
.SH PROTOCOLS
All TLS based protocols: HTTPS, FTPS, IMAPS, POP3S, SMTPS etc.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_SSL_CIPHER_LIST, "TLSv1");
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
If built TLS enabled.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if TLS is supported, CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CARLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_TLS13_CIPHERS "(3), " CARLOPT_SSLVERSION "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_PROXY_SSL_CIPHER_LIST "(3), " CARLOPT_PROXY_TLS13_CIPHERS "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_USE_SSL "(3), "
