.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_NOBODY 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_NOBODY \- do the download request without getting the body
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_NOBODY, long opt);
.SH DESCRIPTION
A long parameter set to 1 tells libcarl to not include the body-part in the
output when doing what would otherwise be a download. For HTTP(S), this makes
libcarl do a HEAD request. For most other protocols it means just not asking
to transfer the body data.

For HTTP operations when \fICARLOPT_NOBODY(3)\fP has been set, unsetting the
option (with 0) will make it a GET again - only if the method is still set to
be HEAD. The proper way to get back to a GET request is to set
\fICARLOPT_HTTPGET(3)\fP and for other methods, use the POST or UPLOAD
options.

Enabling \fICARLOPT_NOBODY(3)\fP means asking for a download without a body.

If you do a transfer with HTTP that involves a method other than HEAD, you
will get a body (unless the resource and server sends a zero byte body for the
specific URL you request).
.SH DEFAULT
0, the body is transferred
.SH PROTOCOLS
Most
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* get us the resource without a body - use HEAD! */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_NOBODY, 1L);

  /* Perform the request */
  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_HTTPGET "(3), " CARLOPT_POSTFIELDS "(3), " CARLOPT_UPLOAD "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_REQUEST_TARGET "(3), " CARLOPT_MIMEPOST "(3), "
