.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_MAXCONNECTS 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_MAXCONNECTS \- maximum connection cache size
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_MAXCONNECTS, long amount);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long. The set \fIamount\fP will be the maximum number of simultaneously
open persistent connections that libcarl may cache in the pool associated with
this handle. The default is 5, and there isn't much point in changing this
value unless you are perfectly aware of how this works and changes libcarl's
behavior. This concerns connections using any of the protocols that support
persistent connections.

When reaching the maximum limit, carl closes the oldest one in the cache to
prevent increasing the number of open connections.

If you already have performed transfers with this carl handle, setting a
smaller \fICARLOPT_MAXCONNECTS(3)\fP than before may cause open connections to
get closed unnecessarily.

If you add this easy handle to a multi handle, this setting is not
acknowledged, and you must instead use \fIcarl_multi_setopt(3)\fP and the
\fICARLMOPT_MAXCONNECTS(3)\fP option.
.SH DEFAULT
5
.SH PROTOCOLS
Most
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  CARLcode ret;
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  /* limit the connection cache for this handle to no more than 3 */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_MAXCONNECTS, 3L);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLMOPT_MAXCONNECTS "(3), " CARLOPT_MAXREDIRS "(3), "
