.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_SERVICE_NAME 3 "17 Jun 2015" "libcarl 7.43.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_SERVICE_NAME \- authentication service name
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_SERVICE_NAME, char *name);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a char * as parameter to a string holding the \fIname\fP of the service
for DIGEST-MD5, SPNEGO and Kerberos 5 authentication mechanisms. The default
service names are "ftp", "HTTP", "imap", "pop" and "smtp". This option allows
you to change them.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
See above
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP, FTP, IMAP, POP and SMTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  CARLcode ret;
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_SERVICE_NAME, "custom");
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.43.0 for HTTP, 7.49.0 for FTP, IMAP, POP3 and SMTP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CARLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_PROXY "(3), " CARLOPT_PROXYTYPE "(3), "
