.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_PROXYHEADER 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_PROXYHEADER \- custom HTTP headers to pass to proxy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_PROXYHEADER,
                          struct carl_slist *headers);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a linked list of HTTP headers to pass in your HTTP request
sent to a proxy. The rules for this list is identical to the
\fICARLOPT_HTTPHEADER(3)\fP option's.

The headers set with this option is only ever used in requests sent to a proxy
- when there's also a request sent to a host.

The first line in a request (containing the method, usually a GET or POST) is
NOT a header and cannot be replaced using this option. Only the lines
following the request-line are headers. Adding this method line in this list
of headers will only cause your request to send an invalid header.

Pass a NULL to this to reset back to no custom headers.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();

struct carl_slist *list;

if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PROXY, "http://proxy.example.com:80");

  list = carl_slist_append(NULL, "Shoesize: 10");
  list = carl_slist_append(list, "Accept:");

  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PROXYHEADER, list);

  carl_easy_perform(carl);

  carl_slist_free_all(list); /* free the list again */
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.37.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_HEADEROPT "(3), " CARLOPT_HTTPHEADER "(3), "
