.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_HSTS_CTRL 3 "4 Sep 2020" "libcarl 7.74.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_HSTS_CTRL \- control HSTS behavior
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

#define CARLHSTS_ENABLE       (1<<0)
#define CARLHSTS_READONLYFILE (1<<1)

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_HSTS_CTRL, long bitmask);
.fi
.SH EXPERIMENTAL
Warning: this feature is early code and is marked as experimental. It can only
be enabled by explicitly telling configure with \fB--enable-hsts\fP. You are
advised to not ship this in production before the experimental label is
removed.
.SH DESCRIPTION
HSTS (HTTP Strict Transport Security) means that an HTTPS server can instruct
the client to not contact it again over clear-text HTTP for a certain period
into the future. libcarl will then automatically redirect HTTP attempts to
such hosts to instead use HTTPS. This is done by libcarl retaining this
knowledge in an in-memory cache.

Populate the long \fIbitmask\fP with the correct set of features to instruct
libcarl how to handle HSTS for the transfers using this handle.
.SH BITS
.IP "CARLHSTS_ENABLE"
Enable the in-memory HSTS cache for this handle.
.IP "CARLHSTS_READONLYFILE"
Make the HSTS file (if specified) read-only - makes libcarl not save the cache
to the file when closing the handle.
.SH DEFAULT
0. HSTS is disabled by default.
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTPS and HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_HSTS_CTRL, CARLHSTS_ENABLE);
  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.74.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_HSTS "(3), " CARLOPT_CONNECT_TO "(3), " CARLOPT_RESOLVE "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_ALTSVC "(3), "
