.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2018, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_HTTPGET 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_HTTPGET \- ask for an HTTP GET request
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_HTTPGET, long useget);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long. If \fIuseget\fP is 1, this forces the HTTP request to get back to
using GET. Usable if a POST, HEAD, PUT, etc has been used previously using the
same carl \fIhandle\fP.

When setting \fICARLOPT_HTTPGET(3)\fP to 1, it will automatically set
\fICARLOPT_NOBODY(3)\fP to 0 and \fICARLOPT_UPLOAD(3)\fP to 0.

Setting this option to zero has no effect. Applications need to explicitly
select which HTTP request method to use, they cannot deselect a method. To
reset a handle to default method, consider \fIcarl_easy_reset(3)\fP.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP(S)
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* use a GET to fetch this */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_HTTPGET, 1L);

  /* Perform the request */
  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Along with HTTP
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if HTTP is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_NOBODY "(3), " CARLOPT_UPLOAD "(3), " CARLOPT_POST "(3), "
.BR carl_easy_reset "(3) "
