.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2019, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_SASL_AUTHZID 3 "11 Sep 2019" "libcarl 7.66.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_SASL_AUTHZID \- authorisation identity (identity to act as)
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_SASL_AUTHZID, char *authzid);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a char * as parameter, which should be pointing to the null-terminated
authorisation identity (authzid) for the transfer. Only applicable to the PLAIN
SASL authentication mechanism where it is optional.

When not specified only the authentication identity (authcid) as specified by
the username will be sent to the server, along with the password. The server
will derive a authzid from the authcid when not provided, which it will then
uses internally.

When the authzid is specified, the use of which is server dependent, it can be
used to access another user's inbox, that the user has been granted access to,
or a shared mailbox for example.
.SH DEFAULT
blank
.SH PROTOCOLS
IMAP, POP3 and SMTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "imap://example.com/");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_USERNAME, "Kurt");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PASSWORD, "xipj3plmq");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_SASL_AUTHZID, "Ursel");
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.66.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_USERNAME "(3), " CARLOPT_PASSWORD "(3), ".BR CARLOPT_USERPWD "(3)"
