.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_SOCKS5_AUTH 3 "27 April 2017" "libcarl 7.55.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_SOCKS5_AUTH \- set allowed methods for SOCKS5 proxy authentication
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_SOCKS5_AUTH, long bitmask);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long as parameter, which is set to a bitmask, to tell libcarl which
authentication method(s) are allowed for SOCKS5 proxy authentication.  The only
supported flags are \fICARLAUTH_BASIC\fP, which allows username/password
authentication, \fICARLAUTH_GSSAPI\fP, which allows GSS-API authentication, and
\fICARLAUTH_NONE\fP, which allows no authentication.  Set the actual user name
and password with the \fICARLOPT_PROXYUSERPWD(3)\fP option.
.SH DEFAULT
CARLAUTH_BASIC|CARLAUTH_GSSAPI
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* request to use a SOCKS5 proxy */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PROXY, "socks5://user:pass@myproxy.com");

  /* enable username/password authentication only */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_SOCKS5_AUTH, CARLAUTH_BASIC);

  /* Perform the request */
  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.55.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CARLE_NOT_BUILT_IN if the bitmask contains unsupported flags.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_PROXY "(3), " CARLOPT_PROXYTYPE "(3)"
