.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_SSL_SESSIONID_CACHE 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_SSL_SESSIONID_CACHE \- enable/disable use of the SSL session-ID cache
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_SSL_SESSIONID_CACHE,
                         long enabled);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long set to 0 to disable libcarl's use of SSL session-ID caching. Set
this to 1 to enable it. By default all transfers are done using the cache
enabled. While nothing ever should get hurt by attempting to reuse SSL
session-IDs, there seem to be or have been broken SSL implementations in the
wild that may require you to disable this in order for you to succeed.
.SH DEFAULT
1
.SH PROTOCOLS
All TLS-based
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  /* switch off session-id use! */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_SSL_SESSIONID_CACHE, 0L);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.16.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_DNS_CACHE_TIMEOUT "(3), " CARLOPT_SSLVERSION "(3), "
