.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_FAILONERROR 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_FAILONERROR \- request failure on HTTP response >= 400
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_FAILONERROR, long fail);
.SH DESCRIPTION
A long parameter set to 1 tells the library to fail the request if the HTTP
code returned is equal to or larger than 400. The default action would be to
return the page normally, ignoring that code.

This method is not fail-safe and there are occasions where non-successful
response codes will slip through, especially when authentication is involved
(response codes 401 and 407).

You might get some amounts of headers transferred before this situation is
detected, like when a "100-continue" is received as a response to a POST/PUT
and a 401 or 407 is received immediately afterwards.

When this option is used and an error is detected, it will cause the
connection to get closed and \fICARLE_HTTP_RETURNED_ERROR\fP is returned.
.SH DEFAULT
0, do not fail on error
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  CARLcode ret;
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_FAILONERROR, 1L);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  if(ret == CARLE_HTTP_RETURNED_ERROR) {
    /* an HTTP response error problem */
  }
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Along with HTTP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if HTTP is enabled, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_HTTP200ALIASES "(3), " CARLOPT_KEEP_SENDING_ON_ERROR "(3), "
