.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2019, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_RTSP_REQUEST 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_RTSP_REQUEST \- specify RTSP request
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_RTSP_REQUEST, long request);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Tell libcarl what kind of RTSP request to make. Pass one of the following RTSP
enum values as a long in the \fIrequest\fP argument. Unless noted otherwise,
commands require the Session ID to be initialized.
.IP CARL_RTSPREQ_OPTIONS
Used to retrieve the available methods of the server. The application is
responsible for parsing and obeying the response. The session ID is not needed
for this method.
.IP CARL_RTSPREQ_DESCRIBE
Used to get the low level description of a stream. The application should note
what formats it understands in the \fI'Accept:'\fP header. Unless set
manually, libcarl will automatically fill in \fI'Accept: application/sdp'\fP.
Time-condition headers will be added to Describe requests if the
\fICARLOPT_TIMECONDITION(3)\fP option is active. \fB(The session ID is not
needed for this method)\fP
.IP CARL_RTSPREQ_ANNOUNCE
When sent by a client, this method changes the description of the session. For
example, if a client is using the server to record a meeting, the client can
use Announce to inform the server of all the meta-information about the
session.  ANNOUNCE acts like an HTTP PUT or POST just like
\fICARL_RTSPREQ_SET_PARAMETER\fP
.IP CARL_RTSPREQ_SETUP
Setup is used to initialize the transport layer for the session. The
application must set the desired Transport options for a session by using the
\fICARLOPT_RTSP_TRANSPORT(3)\fP option prior to calling setup. If no session
ID is currently set with \fICARLOPT_RTSP_SESSION_ID(3)\fP, libcarl will
extract and use the session ID in the response to this request. The session ID
is not needed for this method.
.IP CARL_RTSPREQ_PLAY
Send a Play command to the server. Use the \fICARLOPT_RANGE(3)\fP option to
modify the playback time (e.g. 'npt=10-15').
.IP CARL_RTSPREQ_PAUSE
Send a Pause command to the server. Use the \fICARLOPT_RANGE(3)\fP option with
a single value to indicate when the stream should be halted. (e.g. npt='25')
.IP CARL_RTSPREQ_TEARDOWN
This command terminates an RTSP session. Simply closing a connection does not
terminate the RTSP session since it is valid to control an RTSP session over
different connections.
.IP CARL_RTSPREQ_GET_PARAMETER
Retrieve a parameter from the server. By default, libcarl will automatically
include a \fIContent-Type: text/parameters\fP header on all non-empty requests
unless a custom one is set. GET_PARAMETER acts just like an HTTP PUT or POST
(see \fICARL_RTSPREQ_SET_PARAMETER\fP).
Applications wishing to send a heartbeat message (e.g. in the presence of a
server-specified timeout) should send use an empty GET_PARAMETER request.
.IP CARL_RTSPREQ_SET_PARAMETER
Set a parameter on the server. By default, libcarl will automatically include
a \fIContent-Type: text/parameters\fP header unless a custom one is set. The
interaction with SET_PARAMETER is much like an HTTP PUT or POST. An application
may either use \fICARLOPT_UPLOAD(3)\fP with \fICARLOPT_READDATA(3)\fP like a
HTTP PUT, or it may use \fICARLOPT_POSTFIELDS(3)\fP like an HTTP POST. No
chunked transfers are allowed, so the application must set the
\fICARLOPT_INFILESIZE(3)\fP in the former and \fICARLOPT_POSTFIELDSIZE(3)\fP
in the latter. Also, there is no use of multi-part POSTs within RTSP.
.IP CARL_RTSPREQ_RECORD
Used to tell the server to record a session. Use the \fICARLOPT_RANGE(3)\fP
option to modify the record time.
.IP CARL_RTSPREQ_RECEIVE
This is a special request because it does not send any data to the server. The
application may call this function in order to receive interleaved RTP
data. It will return after processing one read buffer of data in order to give
the application a chance to run.
.SH DEFAULT
.SH PROTOCOLS
RTSP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "rtsp://example.com/");
  /* ask for options! */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_RTSP_REQUEST, CARL_RTSPREQ_OPTIONS);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.20.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_RTSP_SESSION_ID "(3), " CARLOPT_RTSP_STREAM_URI "(3), "
