.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_SHARE 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_SHARE \- specify share handle to use
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_SHARE, CARLSH *share);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a \fIshare\fP handle as a parameter. The share handle must have been
created by a previous call to \fIcarl_share_init(3)\fP. Setting this option,
will make this carl handle use the data from the shared handle instead of
keeping the data to itself. This enables several carl handles to share
data. If the carl handles are used simultaneously in multiple threads, you
\fBMUST\fP use the locking methods in the share handle. See
\fIcarl_share_setopt(3)\fP for details.

If you add a share that is set to share cookies, your easy handle will use
that cookie cache and get the cookie engine enabled. If you unshare an object
that was using cookies (or change to another object that doesn't share
cookies), the easy handle will get its cookie engine disabled.

Data that the share object is not set to share will be dealt with the usual
way, as if no share was used.

Set this option to NULL again to stop using that share object.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
CARL *carl2 = carl_easy_init(); /* a second handle */
if(carl) {
  CARLSH *shobject = carl_share_init();
  carl_share_setopt(shobject, CARLSHOPT_SHARE, CARL_LOCK_DATA_COOKIE);

  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_COOKIEFILE, "");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_SHARE, shobject);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);

  /* the second handle shares cookies from the first */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl2, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/second");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl2, CARLOPT_COOKIEFILE, "");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl2, CARLOPT_SHARE, shobject);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl2);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl2);

  carl_share_cleanup(shobject);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_COOKIE "(3), "
