.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_MAIL_RCPT_ALLLOWFAILS 3 "16 Jan 2020" "libcarl 7.69.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_MAIL_RCPT_ALLLOWFAILS \- allow RCPT TO command to fail for some recipients
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_MAIL_RCPT_ALLLOWFAILS,
                          long allow);
.SH DESCRIPTION
If \fIallow\fP is set to 1L, allow RCPT TO command to fail for some recipients.

When sending data to multiple recipients, by default carl will abort SMTP
conversation if at least one of the recipients causes RCPT TO command to
return an error.

The default behavior can be changed by setting \fIignore\fP to 1L which will
make carl ignore errors and proceed with the remaining valid recipients.

In case when all recipients cause RCPT TO command to fail, carl will abort SMTP
conversation and return the error received from to the last RCPT TO command.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
SMTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  struct carl_slist *list;

  /* Adding one valid and one invalid email address */
  list = carl_slist_append(NULL, "person@example.com");
  list = carl_slist_append(list, "invalidemailaddress");

  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "smtp://example.com/");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_MAIL_RCPT_ALLLOWFAILS, 1L);

  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_slist_free_all(list);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.69.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_MAIL_FROM "(3), " CARLOPT_MAIL_RCPT "(3), "
