.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_TCP_KEEPINTVL 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_TCP_KEEPINTVL \- set TCP keep-alive interval
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_TCP_KEEPINTVL, long interval);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long. Sets the interval, in seconds, that the operating system will
wait between sending keepalive probes. Not all operating systems support this
option. (Added in 7.25.0)
.SH DEFAULT
60
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* enable TCP keep-alive for this transfer */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_TCP_KEEPALIVE, 1L);

  /* set keep-alive idle time to 120 seconds */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_TCP_KEEPIDLE, 120L);

  /* interval time between keep-alive probes: 60 seconds */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_TCP_KEEPINTVL, 60L);

  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_TCP_KEEPALIVE "(3), " CARLOPT_TCP_KEEPIDLE "(3), "
