.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_IPRESOLVE 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_IPRESOLVE \- specify which IP protocol version to use
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_IPRESOLVE, long resolve);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Allows an application to select what kind of IP addresses to use when
resolving host names. This is only interesting when using host names that
resolve addresses using more than one version of IP. The allowed values are:
.IP CARL_IPRESOLVE_WHATEVER
Default, resolves addresses to all IP versions that your system allows.
.IP CARL_IPRESOLVE_V4
Resolve to IPv4 addresses.
.IP CARL_IPRESOLVE_V6
Resolve to IPv6 addresses.
.SH DEFAULT
CARL_IPRESOLVE_WHATEVER
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/foo.bin");

  /* resolve host name using IPv6-names only */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_IPRESOLVE, CARL_IPRESOLVE_V6);

  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);

  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi

.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_HTTP_VERSION "(3), " CARLOPT_SSLVERSION "(3), "
