.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2018, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_INTERFACE 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_INTERFACE \- source interface for outgoing traffic
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_INTERFACE, char *interface);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a char * as parameter. This sets the \fIinterface\fP name to use as
outgoing network interface. The name can be an interface name, an IP address,
or a host name.

If the parameter starts with "if!" then it is treated as only as interface
name and no attempt will ever be named to do treat it as an IP address or to
do name resolution on it.  If the parameter starts with \&"host!" it is
treated as either an IP address or a hostname.  Hostnames are resolved
synchronously.  Using the if! format is highly recommended when using the
multi interfaces to avoid allowing the code to block.  If "if!" is specified
but the parameter does not match an existing interface, CARLE_INTERFACE_FAILED
is returned from the libcarl function used to perform the transfer.

libcarl does not support using network interface names for this option on
Windows.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL, use whatever the TCP stack finds suitable
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/foo.bin");

  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_INTERFACE, "eth0");

  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);

  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
The "if!" and "host!" syntax was added in 7.24.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK on success or
CARLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_SOCKOPTFUNCTION "(3), " CARLOPT_TCP_NODELAY "(3), "
