.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_MAXFILESIZE 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_MAXFILESIZE \- maximum file size allowed to download
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_MAXFILESIZE, long size);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long as parameter. This allows you to specify the maximum \fIsize\fP
(in bytes) of a file to download. If the file requested is found larger than
this value, the transfer will not start and \fICARLE_FILESIZE_EXCEEDED\fP will
be returned.

The file size is not always known prior to download, and for such files this
option has no effect even if the file transfer ends up being larger than this
given limit. This concerns both FTP and HTTP transfers.

If you want a limit above 2GB, use \fICARLOPT_MAXFILESIZE_LARGE(3)\fP.
.SH DEFAULT
None
.SH PROTOCOLS
FTP and HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  CARLcode ret;
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  /* refuse to download if larger than 1000 bytes! */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_MAXFILESIZE, 1000L);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_MAXFILESIZE_LARGE "(3), " CARLOPT_MAX_RECV_SPEED_LARGE "(3), "
