.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_SSL_EC_CURVES 3 "29 Aug 2020" "libcarl 7.73.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_SSL_EC_CURVES \- set key exchange curves
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_SSL_EC_CURVES, char *alg_list);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a string as parameter with a colon delimited list of (EC) algorithms. This
option defines the client's key exchange algorithms in the SSL handshake (if
the SSL backend libcarl is built to use supports it).
.SH DEFAULT
"", embedded in SSL backend
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_SSL_EC_CURVES, "X25519:P-521");
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.73.0. Supported by the OpenSSL backend.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_SSL_OPTIONS "(3), " CARLOPT_SSL_CIPHER_LIST "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_TLS13_CIPHERS "(3), "
