.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_PRIVATE 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_PRIVATE \- store a private pointer
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_PRIVATE, void *pointer);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a void * as parameter, pointing to data that should be associated with
this carl handle.  The pointer can subsequently be retrieved using
\fIcarl_easy_getinfo(3)\fP with the CARLINFO_PRIVATE option. libcarl itself
never does anything with this data.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
struct private secrets;
if(carl) {
  struct private *extracted;
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* store a pointer to our private struct */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PRIVATE, &secrets);

  carl_easy_perform(carl);

  /* we can extract the private pointer again too */
  carl_easy_getinfo(carl, CARLINFO_PRIVATE, &extracted);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.10.3
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_VERBOSE "(3), " CARLOPT_STDERR "(3), "
