.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_IOCTLFUNCTION 3 "16 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_IOCTLFUNCTION \- callback for I/O operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

typedef enum {
  CARLIOE_OK,            /* I/O operation successful */
  CARLIOE_UNKNOWNCMD,    /* command was unknown to callback */
  CARLIOE_FAILRESTART,   /* failed to restart the read */
  CARLIOE_LAST           /* never use */
} carlioerr;

typedef enum  {
  CARLIOCMD_NOP,         /* no operation */
  CARLIOCMD_RESTARTREAD, /* restart the read stream from start */
  CARLIOCMD_LAST         /* never use */
} carliocmd;

carlioerr ioctl_callback(CARL *handle, int cmd, void *clientp);

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_IOCTLFUNCTION, ioctl_callback);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to your callback function, which should match the prototype
shown above.

This callback function gets called by libcarl when something special
I/O-related needs to be done that the library can't do by itself. For now,
rewinding the read data stream is the only action it can request. The
rewinding of the read data stream may be necessary when doing an HTTP PUT or
POST with a multi-pass authentication method.

The callback MUST return \fICARLIOE_UNKNOWNCMD\fP if the input \fIcmd\fP is
not \fICARLIOCMD_RESTARTREAD\fP.

The \fIclientp\fP argument to the callback is set with the
\fICARLOPT_IOCTLDATA(3)\fP option.

This option is deprecated! Do not use it. Use \fICARLOPT_SEEKFUNCTION(3)\fP
instead to provide seeking! If \fICARLOPT_SEEKFUNCTION(3)\fP is set, this
parameter will be ignored when seeking.
.SH DEFAULT
By default, this parameter is set to NULL. Not used.
.SH PROTOCOLS
Used with HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
static carlioerr ioctl_callback(CARL *handle, int cmd, void *clientp)
{
  struct data *io = (struct data *)clientp;
  if(cmd == CARLIOCMD_RESTARTREAD) {
    lseek(fd, 0, SEEK_SET);
    current_offset = 0;
    return CARLIOE_OK;
  }
  return CARLIOE_UNKNOWNCMD;
}
{
  struct data ioctl_data;
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_IOCTLFUNCTION, ioctl_callback);
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_IOCTLDATA, &ioctl_data);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.12.3
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_IOCTLDATA "(3), " CARLOPT_SEEKFUNCTION "(3), "
