.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2016, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_TIMECONDITION 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_TIMECONDITION \- select condition for a time request
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_TIMECONDITION, long cond);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long as parameter. This defines how the \fICARLOPT_TIMEVALUE(3)\fP time
value is treated. You can set this parameter to \fICARL_TIMECOND_IFMODSINCE\fP
or \fICARL_TIMECOND_IFUNMODSINCE\fP.

The last modification time of a file is not always known and in such instances
this feature will have no effect even if the given time condition would not
have been met. \fIcarl_easy_getinfo(3)\fP with the
\fICARLINFO_CONDITION_UNMET\fP option can be used after a transfer to learn if
a zero-byte successful "transfer" was due to this condition not matching.
.SH DEFAULT
CARL_TIMECOND_NONE (0)
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP, FTP, RTSP, and FILE
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* January 1, 2020 is 1577833200 */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_TIMEVALUE, 1577833200L);

  /* If-Modified-Since the above time stamp */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_TIMECONDITION, CARL_TIMECOND_IFMODSINCE);

  /* Perform the request */
  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_TIMEVALUE "(3), "
