.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_TELNETOPTIONS 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_TELNETOPTIONS \- custom telnet options
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_TELNETOPTIONS,
                          struct carl_slist *cmds);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Provide a pointer to a carl_slist with variables to pass to the telnet
negotiations. The variables should be in the format <option=value>. libcarl
supports the options 'TTYPE', 'XDISPLOC' and 'NEW_ENV'. See the TELNET
standard for details.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
TELNET
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  struct carl_slist *options;
  options = carl_slist_append(NULL, "TTTYPE=vt100");
  options = carl_slist_append(options, "USER=foobar");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "telnet://example.com/");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_TELNETOPTIONS, options);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
  carl_slist_free_all(options);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Along with TELNET
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if TELNET is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_HTTPHEADER "(3), " CARLOPT_QUOTE "(3), "
