.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_SSLCERT_BLOB 3 "24 Jun 2020" "libcarl 7.71.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_SSLCERT_BLOB \- SSL client certificate from memory blob
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_SSLCERT_BLOB, struct carl_blob *stblob);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a carl_blob structure, which contains (pointer and size) a
client certificate. The format must be "P12" on Secure Transport or
Schannel. The format must be "P12" or "PEM" on OpenSSL. The string "P12" or
"PEM" must be specified with \fICARLOPT_SSLCERTTYPE(3)\fP.

If the blob is initialized with the flags member of struct carl_blob set to
CARL_BLOB_COPY, the application does not have to keep the buffer around after
setting this.

This option is an alternative to \fICARLOPT_SSLCERT(3)\fP which instead
expects a file name as input.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
All TLS based protocols: HTTPS, FTPS, IMAPS, POP3S, SMTPS etc.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  struct carl_blob stblob;
  stblob.data = certificateData;
  stblob.len = filesize;
  stblob.flags = CARL_BLOB_COPY;
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_SSLCERT_BLOB, &stblob);
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_SSLCERTTYPE, "P12");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_KEYPASSWD, "s3cret");
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in libcarl 7.71.0. This option is supported by the OpenSSL, Secure
Transport and Schannel backends.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if TLS enabled, CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CARLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_SSLCERTTYPE "(3), " CARLOPT_SSLKEY "(3), "
