.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2019, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_TRAILERFUNCTION 3 "14 Aug 2018" "libcarl 7.64.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_TRAILERFUNCTION \- Set callback for sending trailing headers
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl.h>

int carl_trailer_callback(struct carl_slist ** list, void *userdata);

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_TRAILERFUNCTION, carl_trailer_callback *func);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a callback function.

This callback function will be called once right before sending the final
CR LF in an HTTP chunked transfer to fill a list of trailing headers to be
sent before finishing the HTTP transfer.

You can set the userdata argument with the CARLOPT_TRAILERDATA option.

The trailing headers included in the linked list must not be CRLF-terminated,
because libcarl will add the appropriate line termination characters after
each header item.

If you use carl_slist_append to add trailing headers to the carl_slist then
libcarl will duplicate the strings, and will free the carl_slist and the
duplicates once the trailers have been sent.

If one of the trailing headers is not formatted correctly
(i.e. HeaderName: headerdata) it will be ignored and an info message
will be emitted.

The return value can either be CARL_TRAILERFUNC_OK or CARL_TRAILERFUNC_ABORT
which would respectively instruct libcarl to either continue with sending the
trailers or to abort the request.

If you set this option to NULL, then the transfer proceeds as usual
without any interruptions.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
#include <carl/carl.h>

static int trailer_cb(struct carl_slist **tr, void *data)
{
  /* libcarl will free the list */
  tr = carl_slist_append(*tr, "My-super-awesome-trailer: trailer-stuff");
  return CARL_TRAILERFUNC_OK;
}

CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  /* Set the URL of the request */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  /* Now set it as a put */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PUT, 1L);

  /* Assuming we have a function that will return the data to be pushed
     Let that function be read_cb */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_READFUNCTION, read_cb);

  struct carl_slist *headers = NULL;
  headers = carl_slist_append(headers, "Trailer: My-super-awesome-trailer");
  res = carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_HTTPHEADER, headers);

  /* Set the trailers filling callback */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_TRAILERFUNCTION, trailer_cb);

  /* Perform the request, res will get the return code */
  res = carl_easy_perform(carl);

  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);

  carl_slist_free_all(headers);
}
.SH AVAILABILITY
This option was added in carl 7.64.0 and is present if HTTP support is enabled
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_TRAILERDATA "(3), "
