.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_SSLENGINE_DEFAULT 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_SSLENGINE_DEFAULT \- make SSL engine default
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_SSLENGINE_DEFAULT, long val);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long set to 1 to make the already specified crypto engine the default
for (asymmetric) crypto operations.

This option has no effect unless set after \fICARLOPT_SSLENGINE(3)\fP.
.SH DEFAULT
None
.SH PROTOCOLS
All TLS based protocols: HTTPS, FTPS, IMAPS, POP3S, SMTPS etc.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_SSLENGINE, "dynamic");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_SSLENGINE_DEFAULT, 1L);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Only if the SSL backend is OpenSSL built with engine support.
.SH RETURN VALUE
CARLE_OK - Engine set as default.

CARLE_SSL_ENGINE_SETFAILED - Engine could not be set as default.

CARLE_NOT_BUILT_IN - Option not built in, OpenSSL is not the SSL backend.

CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION - Option not recognized.

CARLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY - Insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_SSLENGINE "(3), " CARLOPT_SSLCERT "(3), "
