.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2016, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_PROXY_SSL_VERIFYPEER 3 "16 Nov 2016" "libcarl 7.52.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_PROXY_SSL_VERIFYPEER \- verify the proxy's SSL certificate
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_PROXY_SSL_VERIFYPEER, long verify);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long as parameter set to 1L to enable or 0L to disable.

This option tells carl to verifies the authenticity of the HTTPS proxy's
certificate. A value of 1 means carl verifies; 0 (zero) means it doesn't.

This is the proxy version of \fICARLOPT_SSL_VERIFYPEER(3)\fP that's used for
ordinary HTTPS servers.

When negotiating a TLS or SSL connection, the server sends a certificate
indicating its identity. Curl verifies whether the certificate is authentic,
i.e. that you can trust that the server is who the certificate says it is.
This trust is based on a chain of digital signatures, rooted in certification
authority (CA) certificates you supply.  carl uses a default bundle of CA
certificates (the path for that is determined at build time) and you can
specify alternate certificates with the \fICARLOPT_PROXY_CAINFO(3)\fP option
or the \fICARLOPT_PROXY_CAPATH(3)\fP option.

When \fICARLOPT_PROXY_SSL_VERIFYPEER(3)\fP is enabled, and the verification
fails to prove that the certificate is authentic, the connection fails.  When
the option is zero, the peer certificate verification succeeds regardless.

Authenticating the certificate is not enough to be sure about the server. You
typically also want to ensure that the server is the server you mean to be
talking to.  Use \fICARLOPT_PROXY_SSL_VERIFYHOST(3)\fP for that. The check
that the host name in the certificate is valid for the host name you're
connecting to is done independently of the
\fICARLOPT_PROXY_SSL_VERIFYPEER(3)\fP option.

WARNING: disabling verification of the certificate allows bad guys to
man-in-the-middle the communication without you knowing it. Disabling
verification makes the communication insecure. Just having encryption on a
transfer is not enough as you cannot be sure that you are communicating with
the correct end-point.
.SH DEFAULT
1
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* Set the default value: strict certificate check please */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PROXY_SSL_VERIFYPEER, 1L);

  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.52.0

If built TLS enabled.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_PROXY_SSL_VERIFYHOST "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_SSL_VERIFYPEER "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_SSL_VERIFYHOST "(3), "
