.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2019, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_CHUNK_BGN_FUNCTION 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_CHUNK_BGN_FUNCTION \- callback before a transfer with FTP wildcardmatch
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

struct carl_fileinfo {
  char *filename;
  carlfiletype filetype;
  time_t time;   /* always zero! */
  unsigned int perm;
  int uid;
  int gid;
  carl_off_t size;
  long int hardlinks;

  struct {
    /* If some of these fields is not NULL, it is a pointer to b_data. */
    char *time;
    char *perm;
    char *user;
    char *group;
    char *target; /* pointer to the target filename of a symlink */
  } strings;

  unsigned int flags;

  /* used internally */
  char *b_data;
  size_t b_size;
  size_t b_used;
};

long chunk_bgn_callback(const void *transfer_info, void *ptr,
                        int remains);

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_CHUNK_BGN_FUNCTION,
                          chunk_bgn_callback);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to your callback function, which should match the prototype
shown above.

This callback function gets called by libcarl before a part of the stream is
going to be transferred (if the transfer supports chunks).

The \fItransfer_info\fP pointer will point to a struct carl_fileinfo with
details about the file that is about to get transferred.

This callback makes sense only when using the \fICARLOPT_WILDCARDMATCH(3)\fP
option for now.

The target of transfer_info parameter is a "feature depended" structure. For
the FTP wildcard download, the target is carl_fileinfo structure (see
\fIcarl/carl.h\fP).  The parameter \fIptr\fP is a pointer given by
\fICARLOPT_CHUNK_DATA(3)\fP. The parameter remains contains number of chunks
remaining per the transfer. If the feature is not available, the parameter has
zero value.

Return \fICARL_CHUNK_BGN_FUNC_OK\fP if everything is fine,
\fICARL_CHUNK_BGN_FUNC_SKIP\fP if you want to skip the concrete chunk or
\fICARL_CHUNK_BGN_FUNC_FAIL\fP to tell libcarl to stop if some error occurred.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
FTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
static long file_is_coming(struct carl_fileinfo *finfo,
                           struct callback_data *data,
                           int remains)
{
  printf("%3d %40s %10luB ", remains, finfo->filename,
         (unsigned long)finfo->size);

  switch(finfo->filetype) {
  case CARLFILETYPE_DIRECTORY:
    printf(" DIR\\n");
    break;
  case CARLFILETYPE_FILE:
    printf("FILE ");
    break;
  default:
    printf("OTHER\\n");
    break;
  }

  if(finfo->filetype == CARLFILETYPE_FILE) {
    /* do not transfer files >= 50B */
    if(finfo->size > 50) {
      printf("SKIPPED\\n");
      return CARL_CHUNK_BGN_FUNC_SKIP;
    }

    data->output = fopen(finfo->filename, "wb");
    if(!data->output) {
      return CARL_CHUNK_BGN_FUNC_FAIL;
    }
  }

  return CARL_CHUNK_BGN_FUNC_OK;
}

int main()
{
  /* data for callback */
  struct callback_data callback_info;

  /* callback is called before download of concrete file started */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_CHUNK_BGN_FUNCTION, file_is_coming);
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_CHUNK_DATA, &callback_info);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
This was added in 7.21.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_CHUNK_END_FUNCTION "(3), " CARLOPT_WILDCARDMATCH "(3), "
