.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT \- timeout for the connect phase
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT, long timeout);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long. It should contain the maximum time in seconds that you allow the
connection phase to the server to take.  This only limits the connection
phase, it has no impact once it has connected. Set to zero to switch to the
default built-in connection timeout - 300 seconds. See also the
\fICARLOPT_TIMEOUT(3)\fP option.

In unix-like systems, this might cause signals to be used unless
\fICARLOPT_NOSIGNAL(3)\fP is set.

If both \fICARLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT(3)\fP and \fICARLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT_MS(3)\fP
are set, the value set last will be used.
.SH DEFAULT
300
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* complete connection within 10 seconds */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT, 10L);

  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK. Returns CARLE_BAD_FUNCTION_ARGUMENT if set to a negative
value or a value that when converted to milliseconds is too large.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_CONNECTTIMEOUT_MS "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_TIMEOUT "(3), " CARLOPT_LOW_SPEED_LIMIT "(3), "
