.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_FTPSSLAUTH 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_FTPSSLAUTH \- set order in which to attempt TLS vs SSL when using FTP
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_FTPSSLAUTH, long order);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long using one of the values from below, to alter how libcarl issues
\&"AUTH TLS" or "AUTH SSL" when FTP over SSL is activated. This is only
interesting if \fICARLOPT_USE_SSL(3)\fP is also set.

Possible \fIorder\fP values:
.IP CARLFTPAUTH_DEFAULT
Allow libcarl to decide.
.IP CARLFTPAUTH_SSL
Try "AUTH SSL" first, and only if that fails try "AUTH TLS".
.IP CARLFTPAUTH_TLS
Try "AUTH TLS" first, and only if that fails try "AUTH SSL".
.SH DEFAULT
CARLFTPAUTH_DEFAULT
.SH PROTOCOLS
FTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "ftp://example.com/file.txt");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_USE_SSL, CARLUSESSL_TRY);
  /* funny server, ask for SSL before TLS */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_FTPSSLAUTH, CARLFTPAUTH_SSL);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.12.2
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_USE_SSL "(3), " CARLOPT_FTP_SSL_CCC "(3), "
