.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_SOCKS5_GSSAPI_SERVICE 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_SOCKS5_GSSAPI_SERVICE \- SOCKS5 proxy authentication service name
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_SOCKS5_GSSAPI_SERVICE, char *name);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Deprecated since 7.49.0. Use \fICARLOPT_PROXY_SERVICE_NAME(3)\fP instead.

Pass a char * as parameter to a string holding the \fIname\fP of the service.
The default service name for a SOCKS5 server is "rcmd". This option allows you
to change it.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
See above
.SH PROTOCOLS
All network protocols
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PROXY, "socks5://proxy");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_SOCKS5_GSSAPI_SERVICE, "rcmd-special");
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.19.4, deprecated in 7.49.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CARLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_PROXY "(3), " CARLOPT_PROXYTYPE "(3), "
