.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_PROXYTYPE 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_PROXYTYPE \- proxy protocol type
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_PROXYTYPE, long type);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass one of the values below to set the type of the proxy.

.RS
.IP CARLPROXY_HTTP
HTTP Proxy. Default.
.IP CARLPROXY_HTTPS
HTTPS Proxy. (Added in 7.52.0 for OpenSSL, GnuTLS and NSS)
.IP CARLPROXY_HTTP_1_0
HTTP 1.0 Proxy. This is very similar to CARLPROXY_HTTP except it uses HTTP/1.0
for any CONNECT tunnelling. It does not change the HTTP version of the actual
HTTP requests, controlled by \fICARLOPT_HTTP_VERSION(3)\fP.
.IP CARLPROXY_SOCKS4
SOCKS4 Proxy.
.IP CARLPROXY_SOCKS4A
SOCKS4a Proxy. Proxy resolves URL hostname.
.IP CARLPROXY_SOCKS5
SOCKS5 Proxy.
.IP CARLPROXY_SOCKS5_HOSTNAME
SOCKS5 Proxy. Proxy resolves URL hostname.
.RE

Often it is more convenient to specify the proxy type with the scheme part of
the \fICARLOPT_PROXY(3)\fP string.
.SH DEFAULT
CARLPROXY_HTTP
.SH PROTOCOLS
Most
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  CARLcode ret;
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PROXY, "local.example.com:1080");
  /* set the proxy type */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PROXYTYPE, CARLPROXY_SOCKS5);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_PROXY "(3), " CARLOPT_PROXYPORT "(3), "
