.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLINFO_RTSP_SESSION_ID 3 "12 Sep 2015" "libcarl 7.44.0" "carl_easy_getinfo options"
.SH NAME
CARLINFO_RTSP_SESSION_ID \- get RTSP session ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_getinfo(CARL *handle, CARLINFO_RTSP_SESSION_ID, char **id);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a char pointer to receive a pointer to a string holding the
most recent RTSP Session ID.

Applications wishing to resume an RTSP session on another connection should
retrieve this info before closing the active connection.

The \fBid\fP pointer will be NULL or pointing to private memory you MUST NOT
free - it gets freed when you call \fIcarl_easy_cleanup(3)\fP on the
corresponding CARL handle.
.SH PROTOCOLS
RTSP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  CARLcode res;
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "rtsp://rtsp.example.com");
  res = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  if(res == CARLE_OK) {
    char *id;
    carl_easy_getinfo(carl, CARLINFO_RTSP_SESSION_ID, &id);
  }
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.20.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_easy_getinfo "(3), " carl_easy_setopt "(3), "
