.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_POSTREDIR 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_POSTREDIR \- how to act on an HTTP POST redirect
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_POSTREDIR,
                          long bitmask);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a bitmask to control how libcarl acts on redirects after POSTs that get a
301, 302 or 303 response back.  A parameter with bit 0 set (value
\fBCARL_REDIR_POST_301\fP) tells the library to respect RFC 7231 (section
6.4.2 to 6.4.4) and not convert POST requests into GET requests when following
a 301 redirection.  Setting bit 1 (value \fBCARL_REDIR_POST_302\fP) makes
libcarl maintain the request method after a 302 redirect whilst setting bit 2
(value \fBCARL_REDIR_POST_303\fP) makes libcarl maintain the request method
after a 303 redirect. The value \fBCARL_REDIR_POST_ALL\fP is a convenience
define that sets all three bits.

The non-RFC behavior is ubiquitous in web browsers, so the library does the
conversion by default to maintain consistency. However, a server may require a
POST to remain a POST after such a redirection. This option is meaningful only
when setting \fICARLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION(3)\fP.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP(S)
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* a silly POST example */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_POSTFIELDS, "data=true");

  /* example.com is redirected, so we tell libcarl to send POST on 301, 302 and
     303 HTTP response codes */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_POSTREDIR, CARL_REDIR_POST_ALL);

  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.17.1. This option was known as CARLOPT_POST301 up to 7.19.0 as it
only supported the 301 then. CARL_REDIR_POST_303 was added in 7.26.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION "(3), " CARLOPT_POSTFIELDS "(3), "
