.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_TCP_KEEPALIVE 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_TCP_KEEPALIVE \- enable TCP keep-alive probing
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_TCP_KEEPALIVE, long probe);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long. If set to 1, TCP keepalive probes will be sent. The delay and
frequency of these probes can be controlled by the
\fICARLOPT_TCP_KEEPIDLE(3)\fP and \fICARLOPT_TCP_KEEPINTVL(3)\fP options,
provided the operating system supports them. Set to 0 (default behavior) to
disable keepalive probes
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* enable TCP keep-alive for this transfer */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_TCP_KEEPALIVE, 1L);

  /* keep-alive idle time to 120 seconds */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_TCP_KEEPIDLE, 120L);

  /* interval time between keep-alive probes: 60 seconds */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_TCP_KEEPINTVL, 60L);

  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.25.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_TCP_KEEPIDLE "(3), " CARLOPT_TCP_KEEPINTVL "(3), "
