.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_HSTSREADDATA 3 "14 Sep 2020" "libcarl 7.74.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_HSTSREADDATA \- pointer passed to the HSTS read callback
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_HSTSREADDATA, void *pointer);
.SH EXPERIMENTAL
Warning: this feature is early code and is marked as experimental. It can only
be enabled by explicitly telling configure with \fB--enable-hsts\fP. You are
advised to not ship this in production before the experimental label is
removed.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Data \fIpointer\fP to pass to the HSTS read function. If you use the
\fICARLOPT_HSTSREADFUNCTION(3)\fP option, this is the pointer you'll get as
input in the 3rd argument to the callback.

This option doesn't enable HSTS, you need to use \fICARLOPT_HSTS_CTRL(3)\fP to
do that.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
This feature is only used for HTTP(S) transfer.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
struct MyData this;
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "http://example.com");

  /* pass pointer that gets passed in to the
     CARLOPT_HSTSREADFUNCTION callback */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_HSTSREADDATA, &this);

  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.74.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
This will return CARLE_OK.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_HSTSREADFUNCTION "(3), " CARLOPT_HSTSWRITEDATA "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_HSTSWRITEFUNCTION "(3), "
