.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_SSH_KNOWNHOSTS 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_SSH_KNOWNHOSTS \- file name holding the SSH known hosts
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_SSH_KNOWNHOSTS, char *fname);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a null-terminated string holding the file name of the
known_host file to use.  The known_hosts file should use the OpenSSH file
format as supported by libssh2. If this file is specified, libcarl will only
accept connections with hosts that are known and present in that file, with a
matching public key. Use \fICARLOPT_SSH_KEYFUNCTION(3)\fP to alter the default
behavior on host and key (mis)matching.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
SFTP and SCP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "sftp://example.com/file");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_SSH_KNOWNHOSTS,
                   "/home/clarkkent/.ssh/known_hosts");
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.19.6
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CARLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_SSH_AUTH_TYPES "(3), " CARLOPT_SSH_HOST_PUBLIC_KEY_MD5 "(3), "
