.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_IGNORE_CONTENT_LENGTH 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_IGNORE_CONTENT_LENGTH \- ignore content length
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_IGNORE_CONTENT_LENGTH,
                          long ignore);
.SH DESCRIPTION
If \fIignore\fP is set to 1L, ignore the Content-Length header in the HTTP
response and ignore asking for or relying on it for FTP transfers.

This is useful for HTTP with Apache 1.x (and similar servers) which will
report incorrect content length for files over 2 gigabytes. If this option is
used, carl will not be able to accurately report progress, and will simply
stop the download when the server ends the connection.

It is also useful with FTP when for example the file is growing while the
transfer is in progress which otherwise will unconditionally cause libcarl to
report error.

Only use this option if strictly necessary.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* we know the server is silly, ignore content-length */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_IGNORE_CONTENT_LENGTH, 1L);

  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.14.1. Support for FTP added in 7.46.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_HTTP_VERSION "(3), " CARLOPT_MAXFILESIZE_LARGE "(3), "
