.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_PATH_AS_IS 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.42.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_PATH_AS_IS \- do not handle dot dot sequences
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_PATH_AS_IS, long leaveit);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Set the long \fIleaveit\fP to 1, to explicitly tell libcarl to not alter the
given path before passing it on to the server.

This instructs libcarl to NOT squash sequences of "/../" or "/./" that may
exist in the URL's path part and that is supposed to be removed according to
RFC 3986 section 5.2.4.

Some server implementations are known to (erroneously) require the dot dot
sequences to remain in the path and some clients want to pass these on in
order to try out server implementations.

By default libcarl will merge such sequences before using the path.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/../../etc/password");

  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PATH_AS_IS, 1L);

  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.42.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_STDERR "(3), " CARLOPT_DEBUGFUNCTION "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_URL "(3), "
