.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2019, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_PROXY_CAPATH 3 "16 Nov 2016" "libcarl 7.52.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_PROXY_CAPATH \- specify directory holding proxy CA certificates
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_PROXY_CAPATH, char *capath);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a char * to a null-terminated string naming a directory holding multiple
CA certificates to verify the HTTPS proxy with. If libcarl is built against
OpenSSL, the certificate directory must be prepared using the openssl c_rehash
utility. This makes sense only when \fICARLOPT_PROXY_SSL_VERIFYPEER(3)\fP is
enabled (which it is by default).

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
Everything used over an HTTPS proxy
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  /* using an HTTPS proxy */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PROXY, "https://localhost:443");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_PROXY_CAPATH, "/etc/cert-dir");
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.52.0

This option is supported by the OpenSSL, GnuTLS, and mbedTLS (since 7.56.0)
backends. The NSS backend provides the option only for backward compatibility.
.SH RETURN VALUE
CARLE_OK if supported; or an error such as:

CARLE_NOT_BUILT_IN - Not supported by the SSL backend

CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION

CARLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_PROXY_CAINFO "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_CAINFO "(3), " CARLOPT_PROXY_SSL_VERIFYHOST "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_STDERR "(3), " CARLOPT_DEBUGFUNCTION "(3), "
