.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2018, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_HAPROXYPROTOCOL 3 "5 Feb 2018" "libcarl 7.60.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_HAPROXYPROTOCOL \- send HAProxy PROXY protocol v1 header
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_HAPROXYPROTOCOL,
                          long haproxy_protocol);
.SH DESCRIPTION
A long parameter set to 1 tells the library to send an HAProxy PROXY
protocol v1 header at beginning of the connection. The default action is not to
send this header.

This option is primarily useful when sending test requests to a service that
expects this header.

Most applications do not need this option.
.SH DEFAULT
0, do not send any HAProxy PROXY protocol header
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  CARLcode ret;
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_HAPROXYPROTOCOL, 1L);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Along with HTTP. Added in 7.60.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if HTTP is enabled, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
