.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2018, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_SSH_COMPRESSION 3 "05 Aug 2017" "libcarl 7.56.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_SSH_COMPRESSION \- enables compression / decompression of SSH traffic
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_SSH_COMPRESSION, long enable);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long as parameter set to 1L to enable or 0L to disable.

Enables built-in SSH compression.  This is a request, not an order; the server
may or may not do it.
.SH DEFAULT
0, disabled
.SH PROTOCOLS
All SSH based protocols: SCP, SFTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "sftp://example.com");

  /* enable built-in compression */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_SSH_COMPRESSION, 1L);

  /* Perform the request */
  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.56.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CARLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_ACCEPT_ENCODING "(3), " CARLOPT_TRANSFER_ENCODING "(3), "
