.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_SSLENGINE 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_SSLENGINE \- set SSL engine identifier
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_SSLENGINE, char *id);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a null-terminated string as parameter. It will be used as
the identifier for the crypto engine you want to use for your private key.

The application does not have to keep the string around after setting this
option.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
All TLS based protocols: HTTPS, FTPS, IMAPS, POP3S, SMTPS etc.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_SSLENGINE, "dynamic");
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Only if the SSL backend is OpenSSL built with engine support.
.SH RETURN VALUE
CARLE_OK - Engine found.

CARLE_SSL_ENGINE_NOTFOUND - Engine not found, or OpenSSL was not built with
engine support.

CARLE_SSL_ENGINE_INITFAILED - Engine found but initialization failed.

CARLE_NOT_BUILT_IN - Option not built in, OpenSSL is not the SSL backend.

CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION - Option not recognized.

CARLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY - Insufficient heap space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_SSLENGINE_DEFAULT "(3), " CARLOPT_SSLKEY "(3), "
