.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_TRANSFERTEXT 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_TRANSFERTEXT \- request a text based transfer for FTP
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_TRANSFERTEXT, long text);
.SH DESCRIPTION
A parameter set to 1 tells the library to use ASCII mode for FTP transfers,
instead of the default binary transfer. For win32 systems it does not set the
stdout to binary mode. This option can be usable when transferring text data
between systems with different views on certain characters, such as newlines
or similar.

libcarl does not do a complete ASCII conversion when doing ASCII transfers
over FTP. This is a known limitation/flaw that nobody has rectified. libcarl
simply sets the mode to ASCII and performs a standard transfer.
.SH DEFAULT
0, disabled
.SH PROTOCOLS
FTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "ftp://example.com/textfile");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_TRANSFERTEXT, 1L);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Along with FTP
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if FTP is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_CRLF "(3), "
