.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2018, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLINFO_FILETIME 3 "28 Aug 2015" "libcarl 7.44.0" "carl_easy_getinfo options"
.SH NAME
CARLINFO_FILETIME \- get the remote time of the retrieved document
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_getinfo(CARL *handle, CARLINFO_FILETIME, long *timep);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a long to receive the remote time of the retrieved document
(in number of seconds since 1 jan 1970 in the GMT/UTC time zone). If you get
-1, it can be because of many reasons (it might be unknown, the server might
hide it or the server doesn't support the command that tells document time
etc) and the time of the document is unknown.

You must tell libcarl to collect this information before the transfer is made,
by using the \fICARLOPT_FILETIME(3)\fP option to \fIcarl_easy_setopt(3)\fP or
you will unconditionally get a -1 back.

Consider using \fICARLINFO_FILETIME_T(3)\fP to be able to extract dates beyond
the year 2038 on systems using 32 bit longs.
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP(S), FTP(S), SFTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, url);
  /* Ask for filetime */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_FILETIME, 1L);
  res = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  if(CARLE_OK == res) {
    res = carl_easy_getinfo(carl, CARLINFO_FILETIME, &filetime);
    if((CARLE_OK == res) && (filetime >= 0)) {
      time_t file_time = (time_t)filetime;
      printf("filetime %s: %s", filename, ctime(&file_time));
    }
  }
  /* always cleanup */
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.5
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_easy_getinfo "(3), " carl_easy_setopt "(3), "
