.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_USE_SSL 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_USE_SSL \- request using SSL / TLS for the transfer
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_USE_SSL, long level);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long using one of the values from below, to make libcarl use your
desired \fIlevel\fP of SSL for the transfer.

These are all protocols that start out plain text and get "upgraded" to SSL
using the STARTTLS command.

This is for enabling SSL/TLS when you use FTP, SMTP, POP3, IMAP etc.
.IP CARLUSESSL_NONE
Don't attempt to use SSL.
.IP CARLUSESSL_TRY
Try using SSL, proceed as normal otherwise.
.IP CARLUSESSL_CONTROL
Require SSL for the control connection or fail with \fICARLE_USE_SSL_FAILED\fP.
.IP CARLUSESSL_ALL
Require SSL for all communication or fail with \fICARLE_USE_SSL_FAILED\fP.
.SH DEFAULT
CARLUSESSL_NONE
.SH PROTOCOLS
FTP, SMTP, POP3, IMAP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "ftp://example.com/dir/file.ext");

  /* require use of SSL for this, or fail */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_USE_SSL, CARLUSESSL_ALL);

  /* Perform the request */
  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.11.0. This option was known as CARLOPT_FTP_SSL up to 7.16.4, and
the constants were known as CARLFTPSSL_*
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_SSLVERSION "(3), " CARLOPT_PROXY_SSLVERSION "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_SSL_OPTIONS "(3), "
