.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLINFO_SSL_ENGINES 3 "1 Sep 2015" "libcarl 7.44.0" "carl_easy_getinfo options"
.SH NAME
CARLINFO_SSL_ENGINES \- get an slist of OpenSSL crypto-engines
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_getinfo(CARL *handle, CARLINFO_SSL_ENGINES,
                           struct carl_slist **engine_list);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass the address of a 'struct carl_slist *' to receive a linked-list of
OpenSSL crypto-engines supported. Note that engines are normally implemented
in separate dynamic libraries. Hence not all the returned engines may be
available at run-time. \fBNOTE:\fP you must call \fIcarl_slist_free_all(3)\fP
on the list pointer once you're done with it, as libcarl will not free the
data for you.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All TLS based ones.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  CARLcode res;
  struct carl_slist *engines;
  res = carl_easy_getinfo(carl, CARLINFO_SSL_ENGINES, &engines);
  if((res == CARLE_OK) && engines) {
    /* we have a list, free it when done using it */
    carl_slist_free_all(engines);
  }

  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.12.3. Available in OpenSSL builds with "engine" support.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR carl_easy_getinfo "(3), " carl_easy_setopt "(3), "
