.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_FTP_SSL_CCC 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_FTP_SSL_CCC \- switch off SSL again with FTP after auth
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_FTP_SSL_CCC,
                          long how);
.SH DESCRIPTION
If enabled, this option makes libcarl use CCC (Clear Command Channel). It
shuts down the SSL/TLS layer after authenticating. The rest of the control
channel communication will be unencrypted. This allows NAT routers to follow
the FTP transaction. Pass a long using one of the values below
.IP CARLFTPSSL_CCC_NONE
Don't attempt to use CCC.
.IP CARLFTPSSL_CCC_PASSIVE
Do not initiate the shutdown, but wait for the server to do it. Do not send a
reply.
.IP CARLFTPSSL_CCC_ACTIVE
Initiate the shutdown and wait for a reply.
.SH DEFAULT
CARLFTPSSL_CCC_NONE
.SH PROTOCOLS
FTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "ftp://example.com/file.txt");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_USE_SSL, CARLUSESSL_CONTROL);
  /* go back to clear-text FTP after authenticating */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_FTP_SSL_CCC, CARLFTPSSL_CCC_ACTIVE);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.16.1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_USE_SSL "(3), " CARLOPT_FTPSSLAUTH "(3), "
