.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2018, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_TIMEVALUE_LARGE 3 "25 Jan 2018" "libcarl 7.59.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_TIMEVALUE_LARGE \- set time value for conditional
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_TIMEVALUE_LARGE, carl_off_t val);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a carl_off_t \fIval\fP as parameter. This should be the time counted as
seconds since 1 Jan 1970, and the time will be used in a condition as
specified with \fICARLOPT_TIMECONDITION(3)\fP.

The difference between this option and \fICARLOPT_TIMEVALUE(3)\fP is the type
of the argument. On systems where 'long' is only 32 bit wide, this option has
to be used to set dates beyond the year 2038.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP, FTP, RTSP, and FILE
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "https://example.com");

  /* January 1, 2020 is 1577833200 */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_TIMEVALUE_LARGE, (carl_off_t)1577833200);

  /* If-Modified-Since the above time stamp */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_TIMECONDITION, CARL_TIMECOND_IFMODSINCE);

  /* Perform the request */
  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.59.0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_TIMECONDITION "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_TIMEVALUE_LARGE "(3), "
