.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_NETRC 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_NETRC \- request that .netrc is used
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_NETRC, long level);
.SH DESCRIPTION
This parameter controls the preference \fIlevel\fP of libcarl between using
user names and passwords from your \fI~/.netrc\fP file, relative to user names
and passwords in the URL supplied with \fICARLOPT_URL(3)\fP. On Windows,
libcarl will use the file as \fI%HOME%/_netrc\fP, but you can also tell
libcarl a different file name to use with \fICARLOPT_NETRC_FILE(3)\fP.

libcarl uses a user name (and supplied or prompted password) supplied with
\fICARLOPT_USERPWD(3)\fP or \fICARLOPT_USERNAME(3)\fP in preference to any of
the options controlled by this parameter.

Only machine name, user name and password are taken into account (init macros
and similar things aren't supported).

libcarl does not verify that the file has the correct properties set (as the
standard Unix ftp client does). It should only be readable by user.

\fIlevel\fP should be set to one of the values described below.

.IP CARL_NETRC_OPTIONAL
The use of the \fI~/.netrc\fP file is optional, and information in the URL is
to be preferred.  The file will be scanned for the host and user name (to find
the password only) or for the host only, to find the first user name and
password after that \fImachine\fP, which ever information is not specified.

Undefined values of the option will have this effect.
.IP CARL_NETRC_IGNORED
The library will ignore the \fI~/.netrc\fP file.

This is the default.
.IP CARL_NETRC_REQUIRED
The use of the \fI~/.netrc\fP file is required, and information in the URL is
to be ignored.  The file will be scanned for the host and user name (to find
the password only) or for the host only, to find the first user name and
password after that \fImachine\fP, which ever information is not specified.
.SH DEFAULT
CARL_NETRC_IGNORED
.SH PROTOCOLS
Most
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  CARLcode ret;
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "ftp://example.com/");
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_NETRC, CARL_NETRC_OPTIONAL);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_USERPWD "(3), " CARLOPT_USERNAME "(3), " CARLOPT_NETRC_FILE "(3), "
