.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_FTP_SKIP_PASV_IP 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_FTP_SKIP_PASV_IP \- ignore the IP address in the PASV response
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_FTP_SKIP_PASV_IP, long skip);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long. If \fIskip\fP is set to 1, it instructs libcarl to not use the IP
address the server suggests in its 227-response to libcarl's PASV command when
libcarl connects the data connection. Instead libcarl will re-use the same IP
address it already uses for the control connection. But it will use the port
number from the 227-response.

This option thus allows libcarl to work around broken server installations
that due to NATs, firewalls or incompetence report the wrong IP address
back. Setting the option also reduces the risk for various sorts of client
abuse by malicious servers.

This option has no effect if PORT, EPRT or EPSV is used instead of PASV.
.SH DEFAULT
1 since 7.74.0, was 0 before then.
.SH PROTOCOLS
FTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "ftp://example.com/file.txt");

  /* please ignore the IP in the PASV response */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_FTP_SKIP_PASV_IP, 1L);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);

  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.14.2
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_FTPPORT "(3), " CARLOPT_FTP_USE_EPRT "(3), "
