.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2019, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLMOPT_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS 3 "06 Nov 2019" "libcarl 7.67.0" "carl_multi_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLMOPT_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS \- set max concurrent streams for http2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLMcode carl_multi_setopt(CARLM *handle, CARLMOPT_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS,
                            long max);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long indicating the \fBmax\fP. The set number will be used as the
maximum number of concurrent streams for a connections that libcarl should
support on connections done using HTTP/2.

Valid values range from 1 to 2147483647 (2^31 - 1) and defaults to 100.  The
value passed here would be honoured based on other system resources
properties.
.SH DEFAULT
100
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
  CARLM *m = carl_multi_init();
  /* max concurrent streams 200 */
  carl_multi_setopt(m, CARLMOPT_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS, 200L);
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.67.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLM_OK if the option is supported, and CARLM_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_MAXCONNECTS "(3), " CARLMOPT_MAXCONNECTS "(3), "
