.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2017, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_TFTP_BLKSIZE 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_TFTP_BLKSIZE \- TFTP block size
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_TFTP_BLKSIZE, long blocksize);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Specify \fIblocksize\fP to use for TFTP data transmission. Valid range as per
RFC2348 is 8-65464 bytes. The default of 512 bytes will be used if this option
is not specified. The specified block size will only be used pending support
by the remote server. If the server does not return an option acknowledgement
or returns an option acknowledgement with no blksize, the default of 512 bytes
will be used.
.SH DEFAULT
512
.SH PROTOCOLS
TFTP
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "tftp://example.com/bootimage");
  /* try using larger blocks */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_TFTP_BLKSIZE, 2048L);
  ret = carl_easy_perform(carl);
  carl_easy_cleanup(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.19.4
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_MAXFILESIZE "(3), "
