.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://carl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CARLOPT_RESUME_FROM_LARGE 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcarl 7.37.0" "carl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CARLOPT_RESUME_FROM_LARGE \- set a point to resume transfer from
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <carl/carl.h>

CARLcode carl_easy_setopt(CARL *handle, CARLOPT_RESUME_FROM_LARGE,
                          carl_off_t from);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a carl_off_t as parameter. It contains the offset in number of bytes that
you want the transfer to start from. Set this option to 0 to make the transfer
start from the beginning (effectively disabling resume). For FTP, set this
option to -1 to make the transfer start from the end of the target file
(useful to continue an interrupted upload).

When doing uploads with FTP, the resume position is where in the local/source
file libcarl should try to resume the upload from and it will then append the
source file to the remote target file.
.SH DEFAULT
0, not used
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP, FTP, SFTP, FILE
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CARL *carl = carl_easy_init();
if(carl) {
  carl_off_t resume_position = GET_IT_SOMEHOW;
  carl_off_t file_size = GET_IT_SOMEHOW_AS_WELL;

  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_URL, "ftp://example.com");

  /* resuming upload at this position, possibly beyond 2GB */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_RESUME_FROM_LARGE, resume_position);

  /* ask for upload */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_UPLOAD, 1L);

  /* set total data amount to expect */
  carl_easy_setopt(carl, CARLOPT_INFILESIZE_LARGE, file_size);

  /* Perform the request */
  carl_easy_perform(carl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.11.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CARLE_OK if the option is supported, and CARLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CARLOPT_RESUME_FROM "(3), " CARLOPT_RANGE "(3), "
.BR CARLOPT_INFILESIZE_LARGE "(3), "
